    Maplewood Township
 Traffic Calming Needs Study




             Township of Maplewood
                 Essex County
                  New Jersey


                  August 2007


Prepared for: Maplewood Township Engineer's Office

        By: Keller and Kirkpatrick
                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                           Page
I.      Project Scope / Location                            1
II.     Traffic Calming Measures                            7
III.    Intersections                                      18
        1.   Valley Street and Parker Avenue               18
        2.   Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue            21
        3.   Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue            24
        4.   Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane   27
IV.     Roadways                                           31
        1.   Ridgewood Road                                31
        2.   Boyden Avenue                                 34
        3.   Prospect Street                               37
        4.   Baker Street                                  40
        5.   Jacoby Street                                 41
V.      Additional Locations                               43
        1.   Sommer Avenue                                 43
        2.   Kensington Terrace                            45



APPENDICES

A.     Meeting Minutes / Correspondence
B.     Timing Directive
C.     Traffic Flow Diagrams / Manual Count Data
D.     Collision Diagrams
E.     Construction Cost Estimates
F.     Conceptual Solutions
G.     Sight Triangle Plans
H.     Traffic Signal Warrant
I.     Multi-Way Stop Warrant
J.     Digital Images
K.     NJDOT Straight-Line Diagrams
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



I. PROJECT SCOPE / LOCATION

   The Township of Maplewood recognizes the importance of a safe and efficient
   roadway system for continued economic vitality and the quality of life desired by its
   citizens. Therefore, the Township conducted a traffic survey via the compilation of a
   questionnaire disseminated to various stakeholders within the Township to identify
   locations throughout the Township in need of traffic calming measures and/or traffic
   safety improvements. The intent of the Township's survey was to obtain valuable
   input from key stakeholders, local organizations and committees to assist in the
   identification of these locations, their respective deficiencies and possible corrective
   measures. The key objectives of the aforementioned survey and this subsequent
   study are as follows:

   ·   Identify locations, along with their respective deficiencies, within the Township in
       need of traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety improvements.
   ·   Identify possible corrective measures to address the identified deficiencies.
   ·   Involve community stakeholders in the identification of deficiencies and possible
       corrective measures and throughout the entire study, design and construction
       process.
   ·   Provide corrective measures that are pedestrian and bicyclist friendly.
   ·   Provide corrective measures that are context sensitive and contribute to the
       quality of life of the adjoining community.
   ·   Coordinate with other municipal departments such as fire, police, emergency and
       parks and non-municipal agencies such as NJ Transit to allow for the proper
       access and circulation of their vehicles.
   ·   Avoid relocating the traffic problem to another street or section of the Township.
   ·   Ensure that the plan is compatible with other plans within the Township.
   ·   Develop a plan that is cost effective and results in minimal physical impact to the
       surrounding areas.
   The following locations were identified from the aforementioned traffic survey, as
   compiled by the Maplewood Township Engineer, as in need of traffic calming
   measures, traffic safety improvements, or as otherwise significant crash generators
   and/or problematic:

   ¾ Intersections
     1. C.R. 638, Valley Street, and Parker Avenue
     2. Jefferson Avenue and Maplewood Avenue
     3. Jefferson Avenue and Woodland Road / Walton Road
     4. Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue
     5. C.R. 638, Valley Street, and Jefferson Avenue
     6. Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane

   ¾ Roadways
     1. Ridgewood Road
     2. Boyden Avenue
     3. Prospect Street
     4. Parker Avenue
Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   1
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       5. Baker Street
       6. Jacoby Street

   ¾ Other Areas of Note
     1. Sommer Avenue including Hubert Place, Osborne Terrace and Girard Place.
     2. Kensington Terrace

   The intersections of Jefferson Avenue and Maplewood Avenue and Jefferson
   Avenue and Woodland Road / Walton Road were previously addressed in a study
   submitted by Keller and Kirkpatrick to the Maplewood Township Engineer's Office in
   May 2007. The remaining locations are indicated on Figure 1 ­ Intersection
   Location Map and Figure 2 ­ Roadway Location Map.




                             Figure 1 ­ Intersection Location Map




Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                             2
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County




                                Figure 2 ­ Roadway Location Map


   In an effort to refine the scope, verify the traffic concerns as identified in the traffic
   survey and to discuss potential traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety
   improvements, a field meeting was held on Thursday, February 22, 2007 with
   representatives of the Maplewood Township Engineer's Office and Keller and
   Kirkpatrick. The following are the key issues discussed and the conclusions reached
   during the meeting:

   1. C.R. 638, Valley Street, and Parker Avenue

       ·   The attendees observed motorists, traveling either north or south along Valley
           Street, passing left turning vehicles on the right thereby creating a "shadowing
           effect".
       ·   The Maplewood Township Engineer recommended the installation of bump-
           outs to narrow the travel lanes along Valley Street and Parker Avenue to
           reduce the potential for motorists passing left turning vehicles on the right and
           thereby reduce the number of sideswipe crashes. It was added that the
           bump-outs would reduce pedestrian crossing times.
       ·   It was recommended that the existing traffic signal trombone mast arms and
           eight-inch signal heads be replaced with standard traffic signal mast arms and
           twelve-inch signal heads to increase signal visibility and thereby reduce the
           number of rear end crashes.


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                     3
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       ·   It was observed that some of the existing pedestrian signal heads were not
           functioning and that others had poor visibility. In addition, it was noted that
           pedestrian signal heads were not present in the northeast quadrant of the
           intersection. It was recommended that countdown pedestrian signals be
           installed in the northeast quadrant and that all of the existing pedestrian
           signal heads be replaced with countdown pedestrian signal heads to increase
           pedestrian expectancy.
       ·   It was suggested that an exclusive left turn lane be added along the
           westbound approach of Parker Avenue due to the significant left turn volume
           along this approach. It was stated that the addition of an exclusive left turn
           lane along this approach would require widening along the eastbound
           approach along which there are physical constraints preventing such a
           widening. The addition of an exclusive left turn lane would also increase the
           pedestrian crossing time and that the intersection currently operates at an
           acceptable LOS during each of the peak hours.
       ·   Subsequent to the meeting it was observed that pedestrians cross at the
           unsignalized intersection of Valley Street and Cromwell Place, which is
           located approximately 420 feet to the south of the signalized intersection of
           Valley Street and Parker Avenue. While pedestrian handicap ramps exist at
           the intersection of Valley Street and Cromwell Place, there are no marked
           crosswalks.

   2. Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue

       ·   The attendees observed that intersection sight distance from Elmwood
           Avenue is obstructed by vegetation located within the sight triangles and the
           profile of Prospect Street south of Elmwood Avenue. The attendees agreed
           that the sight triangles should be cleared of all obstructions.
       ·   To enhance pedestrian safety, it was recommended that "ladder" striping be
           added to the crosswalks to increase their visibility, additional warning signs be
           installed along the approach roadways to provide advance warning to
           motorists and that bump-outs be provided to reduce pedestrian crossing
           times and narrow the roadway width of Prospect Street in an attempt to
           reduce speeds along the same.

   3. C.R. 638, Valley Street, and Jefferson Avenue

       ·   It was stated that based on the recently collected traffic volumes and crash
           data that a traffic signal is not warranted at this intersection.
       ·   It was noted that the intersection sight distance from Jefferson Avenue was
           limited due to parking on Valley Street and existing vegetation. The
           attendees agreed that the sight triangles should be cleared of all obstructions.
       ·   It was recommended to install of bump-outs in both the southwest and
           northwest corners of the intersection to reduce pedestrian crossing times and
           allow for the relocation of the stop line along Jefferson Avenue further to the
           east thereby increasing intersection sight distance.

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                    4
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       ·   The Maplewood Township Engineer suggested that the existing near side NJ
           Transit bus stop located along Valley Street southbound, north of Jefferson
           Avenue, be relocated south of Jefferson Avenue as a far side bus stop. It
           was noted that this would require the elimination of existing on-street parking
           along Valley Street in front of local businesses. It was added, however, that
           these businesses have off-street parking behind their buildings.
       ·   It was observed that the street name signing for Jefferson Avenue was
           obscure. It was recommended that either the street name signing be
           enhanced or that advanced warning signs for Jefferson Avenue be installed
           along Valley Street.
       ·   It was agreed by the attendees that the implementation of additional
           pedestrian safety measures need to be investigated including modified
           crosswalks and signing for enhanced visibility and advanced warning for
           motorists.

   4. Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane

       ·   It was stated that based on the recently collected traffic volumes and crash
           data that a four-way stop is not warranted at this intersection.
       ·   The attendees observed that in addition to the existing buildings, illegally
           parked vehicles along Ridgewood Road northbound, north of Cedar Lane,
           were limiting the available intersection sight distance from Cedar Lane.
           Subsequent to the meeting bump-outs and the widening of the existing
           sidewalk in front of the local businesses located along Ridgewood Road
           northbound, north of Cedar Lane, were also discussed as viable options.

   5. Kensington Terrace

       ·   The traffic survey identified Kensington Terrace as a bypass for Valley Street
           and that speeding frequently occurs along Kensington Terrace.
       ·   It was suggested to allow school parking along Kensington Terrace to narrow
           the travel lanes and thereby discourage the use of Kensington Terrace as a
           bypass route. It was stated that residents do not want parking along this
           street due to students loitering in the area.
       ·   It was suggested to install bump-outs or speed tables along Kensington
           Terrace and/or install a traffic circle at the intersection of Kensington Terrace
           and Edgewood Road to reduce travel speeds and discourage the use of
           Kensington Terrace as a bypass route.

   6. Ridgewood Road / Prospect Street / Boyden Avenue

       ·   The attendees discussed such options as the addition of parking and/or bike
           lanes, bump-outs and traffic circles to reduce the travel speed along these
           roadways. It was also suggested that a raised median could be installed
           along Prospect Street to provide a boulevard effect, which may reduce the
           travel speed and would provide for a pedestrian refuge.

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                    5
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



        ·   It was recommended that extension track striping be installed at the
            intersection of Boyden Avenue and Elmwood Avenue to direct motorists
            through the intersection.

   7. Baker Street

        ·   The traffic survey identified speeding and limited visibility along Baker Street,
            resulting from the underpass, combined with heavy pedestrian traffic as
            hazards along this roadway between Maplewood Avenue and Valley Street.
        ·   It was stated that the crosswalks across Baker Street between Dunnell Road
            and Burnett Street are in poor condition and that "ladder" striping, advance
            warning signs, bump-outs and/or raised crosswalks should be considered to
            enhance pedestrian safety and increase driver awareness of these pedestrian
            crossings.

   8.   Jacoby Street

        ·   The traffic survey identified Jacoby Street as a bypass between Springfield
            Avenue and Boyden Avenue. Limited sight distance and speeding were also
            noted along Jacoby Street. Mr. Calbi stated that 44th street is also used as a
            bypass to get to Chancellor Avenue.
        ·   It was suggested that 44th Street could be made a one-way street towards
            Chancellor Avenue or that a gate could be constructed across 44th Street and
            its intersection with Chancellor Avenue, essentially making 44th Street a dead
            end street.
        ·   It was suggested to make Jacoby Street a right-in, right-out only by
            constructing a divisional island along Springfield Avenue.

   9.   Sommer Avenue, Hubert Place, Osborne Terrace and Girard Place

        ·   It was suggested to create a one-way street grid in this area to discourage the
            use of these roadways as bypass routes. It was also suggested to install
            speed tables along Sommer Avenue.
        ·   It was agreed by the attendees that bump-outs and traffic circles should be
            investigated to reduce the travel speeds along these roadways and
            discourage their use as bypass routes.

   A copy of the minutes of this meeting can be found in Appendix A.




Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                     6
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



II. TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES

   The purpose of traffic calming is to reduce the speed and/or volume of traffic to
   "acceptable" levels for the functional classification of the street and the nature of the
   bordering land use while maintaining an overall efficient transportation system. By
   addressing high speeds and cut-through volumes, traffic calming can increase both
   real and perceived safety of pedestrians and bicyclists, and improve the quality of
   life within a neighborhood.

   However, traffic calming measures also need to be designed and implemented such
   as to minimize impacts to emergency service vehicles, access to residences and
   local businesses, and snow removal operations. In addition the design of the
   measures must consider existing drainage patterns so as to avoid ice/water
   accumulation on a pedestrian crossing or roadway. Traffic calming measures also
   must be designed to meet the requirements set forth in the Americans with
   Disabilities Act.

   Based on the input received via the traffic survey conducted by the Township, the
   most prevalent complaint was that of speed. Although most traffic calming
   measures have some effect on both volume and speed, they are usually classified
   according to their dominant effect. Three types of traffic calming measures are
   utilized to control speed as classified in the ITE publication Traffic Calming: State of
   the Practice: vertical measures, which use forces of vertical acceleration to
   discourage speeding (i.e. speed tables, raised intersections); horizontal measures,
   which use forces of lateral acceleration to discourage speeding (i.e. traffic circles,
   chicanes); and narrowing, which use a psychological-perceptive sense of enclosure
   to discourage speeding (i.e. bump-outs, center islands). The following describes the
   traffic calming measures investigated for the various locations included in this study
   along with the pros and cons of each measure. It should be noted that all of the
   following traffic calming measures with the exception of raised intersections and
   speed cushions can be emulated on a temporary basis with barrels, cones and/or
   "rubber" curbing to determine their effectiveness prior to permanent installation.

   1. Bump-outs, also known as
      neckdowns, are a form of roadway
      narrowing that utilizes curb
      extensions at intersections or mid-
      block locations with significant
      pedestrian activity to reduce the
      roadway width as a means to
      achieve reductions in speed.
      When combined with crosswalks,
      they are sometimes referred to as
      safe crosses.     Their effect on
      vehicle speeds can be limited by
      the absence of pronounced vertical or horizontal deflection. Instead, their
      primary purpose is to enhance pedestrian safety. They do this by shortening the
      crossing distances for pedestrians and drawing attention to pedestrians via

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                    7
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       raised peninsulas. The curb radii at the corners of the intersection are tightened,
       which reduces the speeds of turning vehicles. Bump-outs are also effective at
       improving intersection sight distance by allowing the side street stop lines to
       move closer to the main roadway. Figure 3 on page 13 shows typical bump-out
       configurations.

       Pros:
       · Improves pedestrian safety via reduced crossing distances and increased
          visibility for and of the pedestrian.
       · May reduce travel speed for through vehicles.
       · Reduces travel speed for turning vehicles.
       · Prevents illegal parking adjacent to intersection, which can reduce
          intersection sight distance and visibility for and of pedestrians.
       · Increases intersection sight distance.
       · Can provide areas for aesthetic enhancements.

       Cons:
       · Reduction in vehicular speed is limited compared to other methods since
         there is no pronounced vertical or horizontal deflection.
       · May result in the loss of on-street parking depending on the length of the
         bump-out, although this is unlikely given statutory prohibitions of parking
         close to intersections.
       · May limit ability of larger vehicles to turn right without crossing centerline of
         opposing roadway.
       · Difficult to accommodate full bicycle lanes.
       · May require modifications to existing stormwater management facilities.
       · Provisions need to be made for snow and ice removal.


   2. Traffic Circles are raised islands
      located in the center of unsignalized
      intersections around which traffic
      circulates. They prevent drivers from
      speeding by impeding the straight-
      through movement and by forcing
      drivers to slow down to yield. Traffic
      circles are usually landscaped and
      are typically controlled by a yield sign
      on each approach, to allow
      continuous movement within the
      circle.      Although effective, large
      vehicles, such as emergency vehicles, trucks and buses, can have difficulty
      negotiating the circle. This problem can be alleviated by performing the
      appropriate turning analysis for the design vehicle and making the traffic circles
      partially or wholly mountable. Figure 4 on page 14 shows a typical layout for a
      traffic circle at a four-way intersection. It should be noted that traffic circles differ

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                       8
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       from roundabouts in that roundabouts are typically used on higher volume streets
       to allocate right-of-way to vehicles rather than using a traffic signal or all-way
       stop. Roundabouts are larger than traffic circles and typically include splitter
       islands to channel approaching traffic to the right.

       Pros:
       · Reduces travel speed for through vehicles.
       · Reduces the number of potential conflict points at an intersection.
       · Can significantly reduce collisions, particularly right angle collisions.
       · Can provide an area for aesthetic enhancements.

       Cons:
       · Large vehicles, such as emergency vehicles, trucks and buses, can have
         difficulty negotiating the circle if it is not at least partially mountable.
       · The horizontal deflection that occurs at circles may force vehicles into
         pedestrian crossing areas or into the travel paths of cyclists.
       · May require the removal of some on-street parking. Pennsylvania's Traffic
         Calming Handbook recommends the prohibition of parking for 30 feet from
         the intersection.
       · Provisions need to be made for snow and ice removal.


   3. Chicanes are curb extensions that
      alternate from one side of the street
      to the other, forming S-shaped
      curves. They are often grouped in a
      series of three curb extensions
      staggered on alternating sides of
      the street. By forcing motorists to
      weave through the extensions,
      chicanes reduce vehicular speeds.
      Chicanes should be designed so
      that vehicles cannot cut straight
      paths across the center line in an
      attempt to avoid the curvature of the roadway. Center islands have been added
      in some instances to prevent drivers from performing such movements. A
      chicane-like effect can also be achieved, at a fraction of the cost, by alternating
      on-street parking, if demand is present, from one side of the street to the other.
      Chicanes are not appropriate along streets with a high percentage of truck traffic.
      Figure 5 on page 15 shows a typical layout for a chicane.

       Pros:
       · Reduces travel speed for through vehicles, when designed appropriately.
       · May reduce traffic noise due to lower speeds and possibly volume.
       · Can provide areas for aesthetic enhancements.


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                 9
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       Cons:
       · With two-lane chicanes, motorists may attempt to increase travel speeds by
         crossing the centerline to maintain a straight line of travel if not used in
         conjunction with center islands.
       · May impact driveways.
       · May require the elimination of on-street parking.
       · May require modifications to existing stormwater management facilities.


   4. Center Islands are basically a
      raised median located along the
      centerline of a roadway, which
      serve to narrow the travel lanes
      along the roadway.          Center
      islands may be more effective
      when they are installed as short
      interruptions to an otherwise open
      street cross section, rather than
      long     median     islands    that
      channelize traffic and separate
      opposing flows. The latter have
      been found to sometimes result in increased running speeds, while the former,
      perhaps because they appear as obstacles to approaching traffic, reportedly
      result in slower traffic. Center Islands are often nicely landscaped to provide
      visual amenity and can help pedestrianize streets by providing a refuge for
      pedestrians. Figure 5 on page 15 shows a typical center island improvement.

       Pros:
       · Reduces travel speed for through vehicles, when designed appropriately.
       · Provides a pedestrian refuge, thereby enhancing pedestrian safety.
       · Can provide areas for aesthetic enhancements.
       · Can be used to reduce cross-over collisions.
       · Can be used to control access.

       Cons:
       · May require extensive modifications to existing stormwater management
         facilities due to the reduction in available area for spread.
       · May require the elimination of on-street parking.
       · Will restrict access to and from driveways from one direction.


   5. Mid-block Narrowing, also known as chokers, are curb extensions at mid-block
      locations that narrow a street by widening the sidewalk or planting strip. If
      combined with crosswalks, they are sometimes referred to as safe crosses which
      are generally used at locations with significant pedestrian activity, school children
      or senior citizens. Roadway narrowing has been shown to provide a perception

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   10
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       of enclosure to the motorist, which
       in turn reduces speed. Figure 5 on
       page 15 indicates a typical mid-
       block narrowing improvement.

       Pros:
       · May reduce travel speed for
          through vehicles.
       · Improves pedestrian safety via
          reduced crossing times and increased visibility for and of the pedestrian.
       · Can provide areas for aesthetic enhancements.

       Cons:
       · Reduction in vehicle speed is limited compared to other methods since there
         is no pronounced vertical or horizontal deflection.
       · May require the elimination of on-street parking.
       · Difficult to accommodate full bicycle lanes.
       · May require modifications to existing stormwater management facilities.


   6. Raised Intersections are flat raised
      areas covering entire intersections,
      including crosswalks, with ramps on
      all approaches. The intersection is
      typically raised three to six inches
      above street level and often includes
      brick or other textured materials on
      the flat section.     They are not
      generally raised to sidewalk level so
      as to provide a "lip" for the visually
      impaired.       Raised intersections
      reduce vehicle speeds on all approaches and help to decrease conflicts between
      vehicles and pedestrians by delineating crossing areas and elevating pedestrians
      above street level. Typical locations for this type of traffic calming measure
      include business districts, local streets and collectors, or any location with high
      pedestrian activity. They are particulary useful in areas where the loss of on-
      street parking associated with other traffic calming measures is considered
      unacceptable. Figure 6 on page 16 indicates a typical raised intersection
      improvement.

       Pros:
       · Reduces travel speed along all approaches.
       · Improves pedestrian safety via increased visibility for and of the pedestrian.
       · Can provide opportunities for aesthetic enhancements.



Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                 11
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       Cons:
       · Reduction in vehicle speed is limited compared to other methods because of
         their long, flat top and gently sloped ramps.
       · Will reduce response times for emergency services.
       · A noted limitation to textured pavements, bricks and cobblestones is that they
         may present difficulties for pedestrians and bicyclists, particulary in wet
         conditions.
       · May require modifications to existing stormwater management facilities.
       · A measure such as flexible delineators may be required at the installation to
         alert snowplow operators.


   7. Speed Cushions are similar to speed
      tables, except that speed cushions are
      used to slow passenger vehicles without
      reducing response times for emergency
      services.    Speed cushions, which are
      generally three to four inches in height and
      12 to 22 feet in length, are typically used
      on residential roadways to slow vehicles to
      between approximately 15 and 25 mph.
      Speed cushions are designed as three or
      more small speed tables, which force
      passenger vehicles to slow down with one
      or both wheels on the cushion, but are
      spaced to allow wider axle vehicles, such
      as fire trucks, to straddle the speed
      cushions without delaying their response
      time. A typical installation is shown in Figure 7 on page 17. It should be noted
      that the number of speed cushions utilized per installation depends on the
      roadway width. In general, speed cushions should not be placed within 150 feet
      of an unsignalized intersection or 250 feet of a signalized intersection. Speed
      bumps, which are generally encountered in parking lots, are usually three to six
      inches in height and one to three feet in length and were not considered for this
      study since they may generate severe vertical displacement at low speeds.

       Pros:
       · Reduces travel speed.
       · Would not reduce response times for emergency services.
       · Relatively low cost to install and maintain.

       Cons:
       · A measure such as flexible delineators may be required at the installation to
         alert snowplow operators.
       · Could be confusing for bicyclists to navigate.
       · May require modifications to existing stormwater management facilities.

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                               12
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



III. INTERSECTIONS

   1. C.R. 638, Valley Street, and Parker Avenue: This intersection, which is
      adjacent to Columbia High School, was identified in the traffic survey as having
      capacity issues during peak commuting hours and during periods of entry and
      dismissal for the high school. In addition, the survey identified significant
      pedestrian activity, specifically schoolchildren, associated with the crosswalks at
      this intersection.

       Existing Conditions: C.R. 638,
       Valley Street, in the vicinity of
       Parker Avenue is an undivided
       two-lane urban minor arterial
       running south to north with an
       approximate roadway width of
       30 feet. Parker Avenue in the
       vicinity of Valley Street is an
       undivided       two-lane    urban
       collector running west to east
       with an approximate roadway                               Pa
                                                                   rk e
       width of 30 feet and 34 feet west                               rA
                                                                          ven
                                                         et

       and east of Valley Street,                                             ue
                                                       re
                                                    St



       respectively. Valley Street has a
                                                   y




       posted speed limit of 35 mph
                                                 lle
                                               Va




       and is under the jurisdiction of
       Essex County. Parker Avenue has a posted speed limit of 25 mph and is under
       the jurisdiction of Maplewood Township.

       Valley Street and Parker Avenue form a four-legged intersection. All of the
       approaches to the intersection consist of a left/through/right lane with one
       receiving lane. The intersection is controlled by a two-phase, fixed-time traffic
       signal operating on a 70-second cycle length. Crosswalks with "ladder" striping
       currently exist across each of the approaches to the intersection. (Note: The
       "ladder" striping was installed in the crosswalks subsequent to the attached
       aerial.) Pedestrian signals exist in each quadrant of the intersection except for
       the northeast quadrant. A copy of the existing signal timing directive can be
       found in Appendix B. A S1-1, School Crossing, sign with a supplemental W16-
       7p, Diagonal Arrow, sign is posted along both of the Valley Street approaches at
       the intersection. All of the approaches are currently posted with a R10-11A, No
       Turn on Red, sign either overhead or ground mounted. Trucks over six tons
       traveling westbound on Parker Avenue are restricted from turning left at the
       intersection. The intersection is illuminated with a single luminaire mounted on a
       utility pole in the southwest quadrant of the intersection. Sidewalks currently
       exist along both sides of Valley Street and Parker Avenue.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                 18
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       Parking is prohibited at all times along Valley Street northbound from Crowell
       Place to a point 120 feet south of Parker Avenue and from Parker Avenue to a
       point 120 feet south of Hixon Place. In addition, parking is prohibited at all times
       along Valley Street southbound from a point 137 feet south of Hixon Place to a
       point 130 feet south thereof. Stopping and standing is prohibited along Parker
       Avenue westbound from Valley Street to Academy Street and from Valley Street
       to the west side of the Erie-Lackawanna Railroad Overpass. In addition,
       stopping and standing is prohibited along Parker Avenue eastbound from
       Maplewood Avenue to Valley Street. Parking is prohibited along both sides of
       Parker Avenue between the hours of 9:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. to
       3:00 P.M. on school days unless those vehicles are owned by a resident parking
       in front of their residence, a contractor, service and delivery vehicle or an
       emergency vehicle as stated in the provisions of 257-18B. Parking along Parker
       Avenue eastbound is restricted to a time period of two hours between 8:00 A.M.
       and 4:00 P.M. on school days from Valley Street to Summit Avenue. Parking is
       prohibited in the area of the NJ Transit bus stops located along both sides of
       Valley Street immediately north of the intersection.

       The land use immediately adjacent to the intersection of Valley Street and Parker
       Avenue is basically business with the exception of Columbia High School, which
       is located in the northeast quadrant of the intersection. A Shell gas station
       occupies the southeast quadrant of the intersection and has access to both
       Valley Street and Parker Avenue.

       Traffic Analyses: Keller and Kirkpatrick, along with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer's Office, performed a classified manual turning movement count
       program for the signalized intersection of Valley Street and Parker Avenue on
       Wednesday, October 18, 2006 between the hours of 6:00 and 9:30 A.M., 11:00
       A.M. and 2:00 P.M., and 3:00 and 6:00 P.M. The count data was classified in 15-
       minute increments into the following categories:

       Pedestrians
       Automobiles / Light Trucks
       Medium Trucks ­ single unit trucks
       Heavy Trucks/Buses ­ tractor trailers

       Keller and Kirkpatrick summarized the count data in a traffic flow diagram, which
       indicates the AM, midday and PM peak hour turning volumes. A copy of the
       traffic flow diagram can be found in Appendix C.

       Level of Service (LOS) and queue analyses using Synchro 6 were performed for
       the existing conditions at the intersection of Valley Street and Parker Avenue.
       The AM, midday and PM peak hours were analyzed using the manual count data
       and the existing signal timing directive as provided by the Maplewood Township
       Engineer's Office. A copy of the existing signal timing directive can be found in



Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   19
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       Appendix B. The results of the Synchro analyses are summarized in the
       following table:

               C.R. 638, Valley Street and Parker Avenue ­ Existing Conditions
                                                   AM               Midday               PM
                   Lane Group
                                             LOS      Queue     LOS       Queue    LOS       Queue
        Parker Avenue Eastbound LTR        B (19.2)     124    B (16.9)    81     C (23.8)    212
        Parker Avenue Westbound LTR        C (25.2)     215    B (20.2)    148    D (35.4)    #317
        Valley Street Northbound LTR       B (14.4)     227    B (12.5)    176    B (17.8)    320
        Valley Street Southbound LTR       B (17.4)     282    B (12.8)    170    C (20.6)    325
                      Overall               B (18.4)          B (14.8)         C (23.3)
                                           th
       LOS (Delay in seconds); Queue = 95 Percentile Queue Length in feet
       # - 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity; queue may be longer. Queue shown is maximum
       after two cycles.

       As indicated in the analyses, all of the approaches to the intersection operate at
       a LOS `C' or better during each of the peak hours with the exception of Parker
       Avenue westbound during the PM peak hour, which operates at a LOS `D'.
       During the PM peak hour queues reach lengths of over 300 feet along each of
       the approaches with the exception of Parker Avenue eastbound.

       Crash Analysis: Keller and Kirkpatrick obtained from the Maplewood Township
       Engineer's Office the individual crash reports for the three-year period extending
       from June 1, 2003 through to August 30, 2006 at the intersection of Valley Street
       and Parker Avenue and prepared collision diagrams summarizing the crashes for
       each year. According to the individual police reports four, twelve, twelve and
       seven crashes occurred at this intersection during the years of 2003, 2004, 2005
       and 2006, respectively. Of note are the pedestrian crashes, two in 2005 and one
       in 2006, which occurred at the intersection. In the four years analyzed, seven
       crashes were same direction side swipe collisions, most were a result of vehicles
       passing on the right through the intersection. A high percentage of the crashes
       that occurred at the intersection are rear end type collisions, which is typical for
       signalized intersections. A copy of the collision diagrams can found in Appendix
       D.

       Conceptual Solution: The following lists the recommended improvements to the
       intersection of Valley Street and Parker Avenue to address the need for traffic
       calming measures and/or traffic safety improvements as identified in the traffic
       survey for this intersection. Input received at the February 22, 2007 field meeting
       with the Maplewood Township Engineer was incorporated, where appropriate, in
       the recommended improvements.

       ¾ Install bump-outs in the northwest and northeast quadrants. The bump-outs
         will reduce the potential for motorists to pass left turning vehicles on the right,
         reduce pedestrian crossing distances, increase visibility for and of the


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                          20
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



           pedestrian, increase intersection sight distance, and may reduce travel
           speeds along Valley Street.
       ¾   Replace the existing traffic signal trombone mast arms and eight-inch signal
           heads with standard traffic signal mast arms and twelve-inch signal heads to
           increase signal visibility and thereby potentially reduce the number of rear
           end crashes.
       ¾   Install countdown pedestrian signals in all four quadrants to increase
           pedestrian expectancy.
       ¾   Install a ground mounted R10-11A, No Turn on Red, sign along the
           westbound approach and R10-11A, No Turn on Red, signs on the each of the
           traffic signal mast arms along the northbound, southbound and eastbound
           approaches to the intersection.
       ¾   Install a pedestrian crosswalk along with the appropriate pedestrian warning
           signs across the southbound approach of Valley Street at its' intersection with
           Cromwell Place. The pedestrian crosswalk should include "ladder" striping to
           increase its visibility to motorists.
       ¾   Relocate the existing NJ Transit bus stop located in the northwest quadrant to
           accommodate the proposed bump-out.

       An additional option is the installation of a raised intersection to increase visibility
       for and of the pedestrians.

       The estimated construction cost for the conceptual solution, without the raised
       intersection, is $66,100, which does not include any costs associated with the
       acquisition of right of way, potential drainage modifications or utility impacts. A
       copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       A plan copy of the conceptual solution for this intersection can be found in
       Appendix F.


   2. Elmwood Avenue and Prospect Street: The traffic survey identified turning
      difficulties from Elmwood Avenue, which forms the stem of this `T' intersection,
      onto Prospect Street due to speeding along Prospect Street and limited
      intersection sight distance. In addition, it was identified as a hazardous crossing
      for pedestrians.

       Existing Conditions: Prospect Street in the vicinity of Elmwood Avenue is an
       undivided two-lane urban collector running south to north with an approximate
       roadway width of 36 feet. Elmwood Avenue in the vicinity of Prospect Street is
       an undivided two-lane urban collector running west to east with an approximate
       roadway width of 34 feet. Both roadways have a posted speed limit of 25 mph
       and are under the jurisdiction of Maplewood Township.

       Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue form a `T' type intersection with Elmwood
       Avenue serving as the stem of the `T'. The northbound approach of Prospect


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                       21
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       Street consists of a through/right
       lane with one receiving lane while
       the southbound approach consists
       of a left/through lane and one
       receiving lane.       The Elmwood
       Avenue approach consists of a
       left/right lane with one receiving
       lane. The intersection is controlled
       by a stop sign along the Elmwood
       Avenue approach. A W1-7, Two-




                                                                 et
                                                                   El m




                                                               tr e
       Direction Large Arrow, sign is                                  wo
                                                                          od




                                                          tS
       posted opposite the Elmwood                                           Av
                                                                                enu




                                                          ec
       Avenue approach. The intersection                                            e




                                                         p
                                                      os
       is illuminated with a single luminaire




                                                     Pr
       mounted on a utility pole in the
       southeast quadrant of the intersection. Sidewalks currently exist along both
       sides of Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue. Crosswalks exist along the
       Prospect Street southbound approach and Elmwood Avenue.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
       Parking along both sides of Elmwood Avenue is restricted to a time period of two
       hours between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. on school days from Prospect Street to
       Highland Avenue. Parking along Prospect Street northbound is restricted to a
       time period of two hours between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. on school days from
       Elmwood Avenue to a point 120 feet south of Parker Avenue and from Oakland
       Road to a point 120 feet south of Elmwood Avenue. Parking along Prospect
       Street southbound is restricted to a time period of two hours between 8:00 A.M.
       and 4:00 P.M. on school days from Franklin Place to a point 120 feet north of
       Oakland Road.

       The land use in the vicinity of the intersection of Prospect Street and Elmwood
       Avenue is residential. The majority of the residences within the project area have
       off-street parking.

       According to AASHTO ­ A Policy on Geometric De sign of Highways and Streets
       ­ 2004, departure sight triangles for intersections with stop control should be
       provided from the minor road for turns onto or for crossing the major road. The
       vertex (decision point) of the departure sight triangle on the minor road is 14-½
       feet from the edge of the traveled way for the major road. This represents the
       typical position of the minor road driver's eye when a vehicle is stopped relatively
       close to the major road. Based on a design speed of 30 mph and a height of 3-½
       feet for the driver's eye and the approaching vehicle, the intersection sight
       distance from the minor road along the major road for a passenger vehicle
       turning left from the minor road is 335 feet and the intersection sight distance for
       a passenger vehicle turning right onto the major road or crossing the major road
       is 290 feet according to AASHTO.

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   22
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County




       According to the Maplewood Township Zoning and Development Regulations
       sight triangles are required at each corner of an intersection of streets. The sight
       triangle is defined as that area bounded by the intersecting street lines and a
       straight line connecting sight points located on each of the two intersecting street
       lines with lengths based on the streets functional classification, which was
       determined from the Township's Master Plan.

       The required sight triangles according to both AASHTO and the Maplewood
       Township Zoning and Development Regulations along with a digital image of
       each sight triangle has been overlaid on an aerial plan titled "Sight Triangle Plan
       ­ Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue" which can be found in Appendix G. As
       can be seen on this plan, vegetation within the northeast quadrant restricts the
       intersection sight distance. In addition, based on field observation the vertical
       curvature along Prospect Street south of Elmwood Avenue may also restrict
       intersection sight distance. However, a survey of the centerline profile along
       Prospect Street should be performed to verify the same.

       Crash Analysis: Collision diagrams were not prepared for the intersection of
       Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue. However, according to the traffic survey
       as compiled by the Maplewood Township Engineer, nine (9) reported crashes
       occurred at this intersection between January 1, 2001 and December 31, 2004.

       Conceptual Solution: The following lists the recommended improvements to the
       intersection of Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue to address the need for
       traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety improvements as identified in the
       traffic survey for this intersection. Input received at the February 22, 2007 field
       meeting with the Maplewood Township Engineer was incorporated, where
       appropriate, in the recommended improvements.

       ¾ Install bump-outs in the northwest, northeast and southeast quadrants of the
         intersection. The bump-outs will reduce pedestrian crossing distances,
         increase visibility for and of the pedestrian, increase intersection sight
         distance, and may reduce travel speeds along Prospect Street.
       ¾ Clear the sight triangles, as specified in both AASHTO and the Maplewood
         Township Zoning and Development Regulations, of all obstructions, as
         reasonable.
       ¾ Install W11-2, Pedestrian Crossing, signs in advance of and at the
         intersection along both approaches of Prospect Street.
       ¾ Insert "ladder" striping within the crosswalks to increase its visibility to
         motorists.

       Additional options include the installation of speed cushions or chicanes along
       Prospect Street both north and south of Elmwood Avenue.




Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   23
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       The estimated construction cost for the conceptual solution, without the speed
       cushions or chicanes, is $10,300, which does not include any costs associated
       with the acquisition of right of way, potential drainage modifications or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       A plan copy of the conceptual solution for this intersection can be found in
       Appendix F.


   3. C.R. 638, Valley Street, and Jefferson Avenue: The traffic survey identified this
      intersection as hazardous to both motorists and pedestrians due to limited
      intersection sight distance from Jefferson Avenue, which forms the stem of this
      `T' intersection, onto Valley Street along with a steep downgrade along Jefferson
      Avenue from the intersection.

       Existing Conditions: Jefferson Avenue in the vicinity of Valley Street is an
       undivided two-lane local road running east to west with an approximate roadway
       width of 30 feet. Valley Street in the vicinity of Jefferson Avenue is an undivided
       two-lane     urban     minor




                                                                                et
       arterial running south to




                                                                             re
                                                                           St
       north with an approximate Jef




                                                                          y
                                         fer




                                                                         lle
       roadway width of 30 feet.            so




                                                                       Va
                                               n A
       Jefferson Avenue has a                      ve
                                                      nu
       posted speed limit of 25                          e
       mph and is under the                                                 Cro
                                                                                we
       jurisdiction of Maplewood                                                   ll P
                                                                                       l ac
       Township.     Valley Street                                                          e
       has a posted speed limit of
       35 mph and is under the
       jurisdiction    of     Essex
       County. A NJ Transit rail
       line passes over Jefferson
       Avenue approximately 500
       feet west of Valley Street.

       Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue form a `T' type intersection with Jefferson
       Avenue serving as the stem of the `T'. The Valley Street southbound approach
       consists of a through/right lane with one receiving lane while the northbound
       approach consists of a left/through lane and one receiving lane. The Jefferson
       Avenue approach of the intersection consists of a left/right lane with one
       receiving lane. The intersection is controlled by a stop sign along the Jefferson
       Avenue approach. Signs prohibiting trucks over four (4) tons from turning onto
       Jefferson Avenue are posted along both directions of Valley Street. The
       intersection is illuminated with a single luminaire mounted on a utility pole in the
       northwest quadrant of the intersection. Sidewalks currently exist along both



Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                     24
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       sides of Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue.                 A crosswalk exists along the
       Jefferson Avenue approach.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
       Parking is prohibited at all times along Jefferson Avenue westbound from a point
       290 feet east of Dunnell Road to Valley Street, and along Valley Street
       northbound from Edgewood Place to a point 120 feet south of Crowell Place.
       Stopping and standing is prohibited along Jefferson Avenue westbound from
       Dunnell Road to a point 290 feet east thereof and along Jefferson Avenue
       eastbound from Dunnell Road to a point 150 feet east thereof. No vehicle is
       allowed to park for a time period exceeding two hours between 8:00 A.M. and
       4:00 P.M. on school days along Jefferson Avenue eastbound from a point 150
       feet east of Dunnell Road to Valley Street and from Valley Street to Maplewood
       Avenue. In addition, no vehicle is allowed to park for a time period exceeding
       two hours between 9:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M., Monday to Friday along Valley
       Street southbound from West Parker Avenue to Jefferson Avenue. Parking is
       prohibited in the area of the NJ Transit bus stop located along Valley Street
       southbound immediately north of the intersection. No ordinance was identified in
       the parking ordinances as provided by the Maplewood Township Engineer for the
       existing "No Stopping or Standing between 7:00 and 9:00 A.M. and 4:00 and
       6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday" sign along Valley Street southbound south of
       Jefferson Avenue.

       Based on field observations the land use in the vicinity of the intersection of
       Jefferson Avenue and Valley Street is a mixture of business and residential. The
       majority of the businesses and residences within the project area have off-street
       parking. Columbia High School is located along Valley Street approximately 600
       feet north of Jefferson Avenue.

       According to AASHTO the intersection sight distance from the minor road along
       the major road for a passenger vehicle turning left from the minor road based on
       a design speed of 40 mph is 445 feet and the intersection sight distance for a
       passenger vehicle turning right onto the major road or crossing the major road is
       385 feet.

       The required sight triangles according to both AASHTO and the Maplewood
       Township Zoning and Development Regulations along with a digital image of
       each sight triangle has been overlaid on an aerial plan titled "Sight Triangle Plan
       ­ Valley Street (C.R. 638) and Jefferson Avenue" which can be found in
       Appendix G. As can be seen on this plan, the intersection sight distance from
       Jefferson Avenue is restricted by vegetation and structures within the sight
       triangles, especially by vegetation in the northwest quadrant of the intersection.

       Traffic Analyses: Keller and Kirkpatrick, along with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer's Office, performed a classified manual turning movement count


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                        25
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       program for the unsignalized intersection of Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue
       on Wednesday, October 18, 2006 between the hours of 6:00 and 9:30 A.M,
       11:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M., and 3:00 and 6:00 P.M. The count data was classified
       in 15-minute increments into the following categories:

       Pedestrians
       Automobiles / Light Trucks
       Medium Trucks ­ single unit trucks
       Heavy Trucks/Buses ­ tractor trailers

       Keller and Kirkpatrick summarized the count data in a traffic flow diagram, which
       indicates the AM, midday and PM peak hour turning volumes. A copy of the
       traffic flow diagram can be found in Appendix C.

       Level of Service (LOS) and queue analyses using Synchro 6 were performed for
       the existing conditions at the intersection of Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue.
       The results of the Synchro analyses are summarized in the following table:

             C.R. 638, Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue ­ Existing Conditions
                                                   AM               Midday               PM
                   Lane Group
                                             LOS      Queue     LOS       Queue    LOS       Queue
        Jefferson Avenue LR                C (17.2)     24     C (15.7)     24    D (26.6)    59
        Valley Street Northbound LT         A (1.7)     5      A (1.3)       3    A (1.4)      4
        Valley Street Southbound TR         A (0.0)     0      A (0.0)       0    A (0.0)      0
                     Overall                A (2.2)         A (2.1)               A (3.5)
                                         th
       LOS (Delay in seconds); Queue = 95 Percentile Queue Length in feet

       As indicated in the table, both approaches of Valley Street operate at a LOS `A'
       during each of the peak hours and the Jefferson Avenue approach operates at a
       LOS `C' or better during each of the peak hours with the exception of the PM
       peak hour during which it operates at a LOS `D'.

       At the request of the Township of Maplewood, Keller and Kirkpatrick performed a
       preliminary traffic signal warrant analysis in accordance with Section 4C of the
       Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, 2003 Edition (MUTCD), as amended
       by the Federal Highway Administration for the unsignalized intersection of Valley
       Street, and Jefferson Avenue. The results of the signal warrant analysis are that
       the installation of a traffic signal is not warranted at the intersection of Valley
       Street and Jefferson Avenue. A copy of the preliminary traffic signal warrant
       analysis for this intersection can be found in Appendix H.

       Crash Analysis: Keller and Kirkpatrick obtained from the Maplewood Township
       Engineer's Office the individual crash reports for the three-year period extending
       from January 1, 2004 through to August 30, 2006 at the intersection of Valley
       Street and Jefferson Avenue and prepared collision diagrams summarizing the

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                          26
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       crashes for each year. According to the individual police reports six, two and two
       crashes occurred at this intersection during the years of 2004, 2005 and 2006,
       respectively. Of the three years that were analyzed, only three crashes, which all
       occurred in 2004, were angle type crashes. Upon review of the individual crash
       reports, it is evident that a high percentage of the crashes that occurred at the
       intersection are rear end collisions which appear to have been a result of driver
       inattention. A copy of the collision diagrams can found in Appendix D.

       Conceptual Solution: The following lists the recommended improvements to the
       intersection of Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue to address the need for traffic
       calming measures and/or traffic safety improvements as identified in the traffic
       survey for this intersection. Input received at the February 22, 2007 field meeting
       with the Maplewood Township Engineer was incorporated, where appropriate, in
       the recommended improvements.

       ¾ Install bump-outs in the northwest and southwest quadrants. The bump-outs
         will increase intersection sight distance, increase visibility for and of the
         pedestrian, and may reduce travel speeds along Valley Street.
       ¾ Clear the sight triangles, as specified in both AASHTO and the Maplewood
         Township Zoning and Development Regulations, of all obstructions, as
         reasonable.
       ¾ Install a W2-2, Side Road, sign along with a supplemental W16-8, Jefferson
         Ave, sign along both approaches of Valley Street in advance of the
         intersection.
       ¾ Insert "ladder" striping within the crosswalk to increase its visibility to
         motorists.
       ¾ Eliminate on-street parking along Valley Street southbound within the limits of
         the sight triangles for Jefferson Avenue.

       The estimated construction cost for the conceptual solution is $11,400, which
       does not include any costs associated with the acquisition of right of way,
       potential drainage modifications or utility impacts. A copy of the construction cost
       estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       A plan copy of the conceptual solution for this intersection can be found in
       Appendix F.


   4. Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane: The traffic survey identified
      this intersection as hazardous to both motorists and pedestrians due to limited
      intersection sight distance from Cedar Lane onto Ridgewood Road. Speeding
      was also noted along Ridgewood Avenue.

       Existing Conditions: Ridgewood Road in the vicinity of Cedar Lane/E. Cedar
       Lane is an undivided two-lane urban collector running south to north with an
       approximate roadway width of 30 feet. Cedar Lane in the vicinity of Ridgewood


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   27
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       Road is an undivided two-lane local
       roadway running west to east with an                                         a   d
       approximate roadway width of 30 feet. Ced                                 Ro




                                                                            d
                                                 ar




                                                                           oo
       E. Cedar Lane in the vicinity of             La




                                                                       ew
       Ridgewood Road is an undivided two-             ne




                                                                      dg
       lane local roadway running west to east




                                                                    Ri
       with an approximate roadway width of
       24 feet. All three roadways have a
       posted speed limit of 25 mph and are
       under the jurisdiction of Maplewood
       Township.                                                                E.
                                                                                     Ce
                                                                                 ar     d
       Cedar Lane and E. Cedar Lane                                                 La
       approach Ridgewood Road from the                                                ne
       west and east, respectively, to an
       unsignalized four-way intersection. The centerlines for Cedar Lane and E. Cedar
       Lane as they intersect Ridgewood Road are offset approximately 15 feet with
       Cedar Lane being furthest south. All of the approaches to the intersection
       consist of a left/through/right lane with one receiving lane. The intersection is
       controlled by stop signs along both Cedar Lane and E. Cedar Lane. A W11-2,
       Pedestrian Crossing, with a supplemental W16-9p, Ahead, sign is posted along
       each approach of Ridgewood Road. The intersection is illuminated with a single
       luminaire mounted on a utility pole in the northeast quadrant of the intersection.
       Sidewalks currently exist along Ridgewood Road northbound, Cedar Lane
       westbound and both sides of E. Cedar Lane. Crosswalks with "ladder" striping
       exist along approaches of E. Cedar Lane and Ridgewood Road southbound.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
       Parking is prohibited at all times along Ridgewood Road southbound from the
       municipality boundary between Maplewood Township and South Orange
       Township to New England Road. Stopping and standing is prohibited along
       Ridgewood Road southbound from the municipality boundary between
       Maplewood Township and South Orange Township to Durand Road. In addition,
       parking is prohibited at all times along E. Cedar Lane westbound from Kendal
       Avenue to Ridgewood Road.

       The land use in the vicinity of the intersection of Ridgewood Road and Cedar
       Lane/E. Cedar Lane is basically residential and small business. The majority of
       the residences and small businesses within the project area have off-street
       parking.

       According to AASHTO the intersection sight distance from the minor road along
       the major road for a passenger vehicle turning left from the minor road based on
       a design speed of 30 mph is 335 feet and the intersection sight distance for a



Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                 28
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       passenger vehicle turning right onto the major road or crossing the major road is
       290 feet.

       The required sight triangles according to both AASHTO and the Maplewood
       Township Zoning and Development Regulations along with a digital image of
       each sight triangle has been overlaid on an aerial plan titled "Sight Triangle Plan
       ­ Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane" which can be found in Appendix G. As can
       be seen on this plan, intersection sight distance from E. Cedar Lane to both the
       north and south is severely restricted by parking along Ridgewood Road
       northbound, and to a lesser extent to the north by the existing structure in the
       northeast quadrant. Intersection sight distance is restricted from Cedar Lane to
       the north by vegetation and to the south by a masonry monument.

       Traffic Analyses: Keller and Kirkpatrick, along with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer's Office, performed a classified manual turning movement count
       program for the unsignalized intersection of Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E.
       Cedar Lane on Thursday, October 19, 2006 between the hours of 6:00 and 9:30
       A.M, 11:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M., and 3:00 and 6:00 P.M. The count data was
       classified in 15-minute increments into the following categories:

       Pedestrians
       Automobiles / Light Trucks
       Medium Trucks ­ single unit trucks
       Heavy Trucks/Buses ­ tractor trailers

       Keller and Kirkpatrick summarized the count data in a traffic flow diagram, which
       indicates the AM, midday and PM peak hour turning volumes. A copy of the
       traffic flow diagram can be found in Appendix C.

       Level of Service (LOS) and queue analyses using Synchro 6 were performed for
       the existing conditions at the intersection of Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E.
       Cedar Lane. The results of the Synchro analyses are summarized in the
       following table:

       Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane ­ Existing Conditions
                                                   AM               Midday                  PM
                   Lane Group
                                             LOS      Queue     LOS       Queue    LOS       Queue
        E. Cedar Lane Eastbound LTR        B (12.0)     8      B (10.8)      6    B (11.6)       7
        Cedar Lane Westbound LTR           B (12.6)     3      B (10.9)      1    B (11.5)       2
        Ridgewood Road Northbound LTR       A (1.2)     2      A (0.6)       1    A (0.3)        0
        Ridgewood Road Southbound LTR       A (0.1)     0      A (0.3)       0    A (0.2)        0
                     Overall                A (2.1)         A (2.1)               A (1.7)
                                         th
       LOS (Delay in seconds); Queue = 95 Percentile Queue Length in feet




Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                          29
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       As indicated in the table, both approaches of Ridgewood Road and the
       approaches of Cedar Lane and E. Cedar Lane operate at a LOS `A' and LOS `B',
       respectively, during each of the peak hours with minimal queue lengths.

       At the request of the Township of Maplewood, Keller and Kirkpatrick performed a
       preliminary multi-way stop needs analysis in accordance with Section 2B of the
       MUTCD for the unsignalized intersection of Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E.
       Cedar Lane. The result of the multi-way stop analysis is that the installation of a
       four-way stop is not warranted at the intersection of Ridgewood Road and Cedar
       Lane/E. Cedar Lane. A copy of the preliminary multi-way stop analysis for this
       intersection can be found in Appendix I.

       Crash Analysis: Keller and Kirkpatrick obtained the individual crash reports for
       the three-year period extending from January 1, 2004 through to August 30, 2006
       from the Township of Maplewood and prepared collision diagrams summarizing
       the crashes for each year at this intersection. According to the individual crash
       reports zero, two and two crashes occurred at the intersection of Ridgewood
       Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane during the years of 2004, 2005 and 2006,
       respectively. In addition, both crashes that occurred in 2005 and 2006 were
       angle type crashes. Upon review of the individual crash reports, it is evident that
       all but one of the angle type crashes was a result of poor intersection sight
       distance along Ridgewood Road.

       Conceptual Solution: The following lists the recommended improvements to the
       intersection of Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane to address the
       need for traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety improvements as identified
       in the traffic survey for this intersection. Input received at the February 22, 2007
       field meeting with the Maplewood Township Engineer was incorporated, where
       appropriate, in the recommended improvements.

       ¾ Install bump-outs in the northeast and southeast quadrants. The bump-outs
         will increase intersection sight distance, increase visibility for and of the
         pedestrian, and may reduce travel speeds along Ridgewood Road.
       ¾ Clear the sight triangles, as specified in both AASHTO and the Maplewood
         Township Zoning and Development Regulations, of all obstructions, as
         reasonable.
       ¾ Eliminate on-street parking along Ridgewood Road northbound within the
         limits of the sight triangles.
       ¾ Widen the existing sidewalk in front of the local businesses located along
         Ridgewood Road northbound, north of Cedar Lane to discourage parking.

       Additional options include the installation of speed cushions or chicanes along
       Ridgewood Road south of Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane.

       The estimated construction cost for the conceptual solution, without the speed
       cushions or chicanes, is $12,300, which does not include any costs associated


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   30
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       with the acquisition of right of way, potential drainage modifications or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       A plan copy of the conceptual solution for this intersection can be found in
       Appendix F.


IV. ROADWAYS

   1. Ridgewood Road: The traffic survey identified speeding, limited intersection
      sight distance at unspecified locations, and significant pedestrian traffic as
      hazards along this roadway.

       Existing Conditions: Ridgewood Road within the Township of Maplewood is an
       undivided two-lane urban collector running south to north with an approximate
       average roadway width of 30 feet. It has an approximate overall length of 1.3
       miles within the Township with numerous unsignalized intersections and a
       flashing signal at Baker Street. According to the NJDOT Straight-Line Diagram
       for Ridgewood Road, the municipal boundary between Maplewood Township and
       Millburn Township is located approximately 50 feet south of Bailey Road and the
       municipal boundary between Maplewood Township and South Orange Township
       is located approximately 150 feet north of Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane.
       Ridgewood Road has a posted speed limit of 25 mph and is under the jurisdiction
       of Maplewood Township.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
       Parking is prohibited at all times along Ridgewood Road southbound from the
       municipality boundary between Maplewood Township and South Orange
       Township to New England Road. Parking is also prohibited along Ridgewood
       Road northbound from Curtis Place to Lenox Place and from Woodland Road to
       a point 45 feet south. Stopping and standing is prohibited along Ridgewood
       Road southbound from the municipal boundary between Maplewood Township
       and South Orange Township to Durand Road, and along Ridgewood Road
       northbound from Maryland Road to Virginia Road and from Woodland Avenue to
       a point 82 feet north thereof.

       The land use along Ridgewood Road is basically residential with a few small
       business located in the vicinity of Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane. The majority of the
       residences and businesses within the project area have off-street parking. In
       addition, Jefferson Elementary School is located along Ridgewood Road at its
       intersection with Virginia Road.

       Conceptual Solutions: The following summarizes two conceptual solutions
       which address the need for traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety
       improvements as identified in the traffic survey for Ridgewood Road. Input


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                31
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       received at the February 22, 2007 field meeting with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer was incorporated, where appropriate, in the recommended
       improvements.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1:
       ¾ Install bump-outs at the following intersecting roadways with Ridgewood
         Road.

           Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane                Woodland Road
           Washington Park                         Hickory Drive
           St. Lawrence Avenue                     Highland Place
           New England Road                        Curtiss Place
           Dehart Road                             Baker Street
           Arcularius Terrace                      Ridgewood Terrace
           Hoffman Street                          Lenox Place
           Collinwood Road                         Clinton Avenue
           Jefferson Avenue                        Winthrop Place
           Claremont Avenue                        Mountain Avenue
           Virginia Road                           Carlton Court
           Euclid Avenue                           Maple Terrace
           Maryland Road                           Cottage Court
           Durand Road                             Berkeley Road
           Roosevelt Road

         The bump-outs will increase intersection sight distance, increase visibility for
         and of the pedestrian, and may reduce travel speeds along Ridgewood Road.
       ¾ Provide "ladder" striping within each crosswalk so as to increase their visibility
         to motorists.
       ¾ Clear the sight triangles, as specified in both AASHTO and the Maplewood
         Township Zoning and Development Regulations, of all obstructions, as
         reasonable, for each intersection along Ridgewood Road.

       If the bump-outs do not achieve the desired result with respect to reducing travel
       speeds along Ridgewood Road over a predetermined time frame then speed
       cushions could be installed in areas identified with excessive speeding.

       The estimated construction cost for Conceptual Solution No. 1 is $352,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with the acquisition of right of way,
       potential drainage modifications or utility impacts. A copy of the construction cost
       estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       Conceptual Solution No. 2:
       ¾ Install raised intersections at the following intersecting roadways with
         Ridgewood Road.




Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   32
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



           New England Road
           Collinwood Road
           Claremont Avenue
           Euclid Road
           Durand Road
           Baker Street
           Ridgewood Terrace
           Clinton Avenue
           Carlton Court
           Maple Terrace
           Berkeley Road

         The raised intersections will increase visibility for and of the pedestrian and
         will reduce travel speeds along Ridgewood Road. However, they do not
         address the concerns regarding limited intersection sight distance.
       ¾ Provide "ladder" striping within each crosswalk and clear the sight triangles as
         recommended in Conceptual Solution No. 1.

       The estimated construction cost for Conceptual Solution No. 2 is $132,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with the acquisition of right of way,
       potential drainage modifications or utility impacts. A copy of the construction cost
       estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       The following traffic calming measures were deemed inappropriate for this
       roadway as noted:

       ¾ On-Street Parking or a Bicycle Lane, both of which are a form of roadway
         narrowing, provide a perception of enclosure to the motorist, and in turn
         reduce speed. However, since off-street parking is readily available the
         demand for on-street parking may not be adequate to provide a constant
         stimulus. The striping for the parking stalls and/or a bicycle lane alone will not
         provide adequate stimuli to significantly treduce travel speeds.
       ¾ Chicanes were deemed inappropriate due to the close proximity of the side
         streets with one another.
       ¾ Center Islands would restrict access to and from driveways from one
         direction.    In addition, currently available on-street parking would be
         eliminated and thereby result in a net increase in travel speeds.
       ¾ Traffic Circles were deemed inappropriate due to the close proximity of
         intersecting side streets at various locations along Ridgewood Road and
         since they would most likely require the relocation of existing crosswalks to
         locations with lower driver expectancy.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1 is our recommended alternative since it addresses
       each of the issues identified in the traffic survey.




Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   33
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



   2. Boyden Avenue: The traffic survey identified speeding as a hazard along this
      roadway.

       Existing Conditions: Boyden Avenue within the Township of Maplewood is an
       undivided two-lane urban collector running south to north with an approximate
       roadway width of 29 feet. It has an approximate overall length of 1.5 miles within
       the Township with numerous unsignalized intersections and five signalized
       intersections at Irvington Avenue, Parker Avenue, Elmwood Avenue, Springfield
       Avenue, and Stuyvesant Avenue. According to the NJDOT Straight-Line
       Diagram for Boyden Avenue, the roadway extends from C.R. 619, Stuyvesant
       Avenue/40th Street to C.R. 665, Irvington Avenue within the Township of
       Maplewood. Boyden Avenue has a posted speed limit of 25 mph and is under
       the jurisdiction of Maplewood Township.

       Parking is prohibited at all times along Boyden Avenue northbound from a point
       105 feet south of Parker Avenue to Orchard Road and from Springfield Avenue
       to a point 188 feet south thereof. Parking is prohibited along Boyden Avenue
       southbound from Springfield Avenue to Elmwood Avenue and from Springfield
       Avenue to a point 200 feet north-east thereof. Parking is also prohibited along
       Boyden Avenue southbound from Irvington Avenue to a point 75 feet south
       thereof. Parking is prohibited along Boyden Avenue northbound from Springfield
       Avenue to a point 230 feet south thereof, from a point 594 feet south of
       Springfield Avenue to the dividing line between Maplewood Township and the
       Town of Irvington and from Springfield Avenue to the dividing line between the
       Township of Maplewood and the Town of Irvington. Stopping or standing is
       prohibited at all times along both sides of Boyden Avenue from a point 170 feet
       north of Elmwood Avenue to Orchard Road and from Parker Avenue to a point
       155 feet north thereof. Stopping or standing is also prohibited along Boyden
       Avenue northbound from Irvington Avenue to a point 205 feet south thereof, from
       a point 40 feet south of Meadowbrook Place North to Elmwood Avenue and from
       Parker Avenue to a point 105 feet south; and along Boyden Avenue southbound
       from Elmwood Avenue to a point 170 feet north of Elmwood Avenue, from
       Irvington Avenue to a point 195 feet south thereof and from Parker Avenue to a
       point 115 feet south thereof. Stopping or standing is prohibited along Boyden
       Avenue southbound from Boyden Parkway to Elmwood Avenue. No stopping or
       standing is permitted along Boyden Avenue northbound from Harding Street to a
       point 100 feet south of Jacoby Street and from a point 230 feet south of
       Springfield Avenue to a point 364 feet south thereof; and along Boyden Avenue
       southbound from Jacoby Street to Menzel Avenue.

       Stopping or standing is prohibited on the north side of Boyden Avenue beginning
       at a point formed by the intersection of the tangent extended of the north curbline
       of Elmwood Avenue and the west curbline of Boyden Avenue a distance of 100
       feet to the starting point of the no-parking zone; thence south along the curbline
       of Boyden Avenue and on a curve to the right along Elmwood Avenue for a
       distance of 150 feet. Stopping or standing is also prohibited on the north side of


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                  34
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       Boyden Avenue beginning at a point formed by the intersection of the tangent
       extended of the north curbline of Orchard Road and the east curbline of Boyden
       Avenue thence north-east along the tangent of Orchard Road a distance of 80
       feet to the starting point of the no-parking zone; thence west along the curbline of
       Orchard (Orange) Road and on a curve to the right along Boyden Avenue for a
       distance of 300 feet. Parking is permitted along Boyden Avenue northbound for
       a time period of three hours from 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. everyday from Boyden
       Avenue to a point 300 feet west thereof and along Boyden Avenue southbound
       from Elmwood Avenue to Midland Boulevard.

       The land use along Boyden Avenue is basically residential north of Elmwood
       Avenue. South of Elmwood Avenue, the land use along Boyden Avenue is
       basically commercial and residential.       The majority of the single-family
       residences within the project area have off-street parking. In addition, the Seth
       Boyden Elementary School is located along Boyden Avenue approximately 400
       feet south of Springfield Avenue. A Maplewood Township firehouse is located
       along Boyden Avenue at the intersection of Springfield Avenue and the
       Maplewood Township Volunteer First Aid Squad is also located along Boyden
       Avenue near Elmwood Avenue. The Maplewood Community Pool is located
       along Boyden Avenue between Springfield Avenue and Meadowbrook Place.

       Conceptual Solutions: The following summarizes two conceptual solutions
       which address the need for traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety
       improvements as identified in the traffic survey for Boyden Avenue. Input
       received at the February 22, 2007 field meeting with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer was incorporated, where appropriate, in the recommended
       improvements.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1: While only excessive speeding was identified as a
       hazard along Boyden Avenue, numerous pedestrian crossings exist along
       Boyden Avenue within the project limits and Conceptual Solution No. 1 reflects
       this fact.

       ¾ Install bump-outs at the following intersecting roadways with Boyden Avenue.

           Ball Terrace
           Midland Boulevard (West)
           Midland Boulevard (East)
           Tuscan Road
           Jacoby Street (West)
           Jacoby Street (East)
           Meadowbrook Place

           The bump-outs will increase intersection sight distance, increase visibility for
           and of the pedestrian, and may reduce travel speeds along Boyden Avenue.



Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   35
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       ¾ Provide "ladder" striping within each crosswalk so as to increase their visibility
         to motorists.

       If the bump-outs do not achieve the desired result with respect to reducing travel
       speeds along Boyden Avenue over a predetermined time frame then speed
       cushions could be installed in areas identified with excessive speeding.

       The estimated construction cost for the Conceptual Solution No. 1 is $77,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with right of way acquisition or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       Conceptual Solution No. 2:
       ¾ Install raised intersections at the following intersecting roadways with Boyden
         Avenue.

           Garfield Place
           Ball Terrace
           Midland Boulevard (West)
           Midland Boulevard (East)
           Tuscan Road
           Jacoby Street (West)
           Jacoby Street (East)

         The raised intersections will increase visibility for and of the pedestrian and
         will reduce travel speeds along Boyden Avenue.
       ¾ Provide "ladder" striping within each crosswalk as recommended in
         Conceptual Solution No. 1.

       Additional options include the installation of speed cushions along Boyden
       Avenue between Springfield Avenue and Elmwood Avenue.

       The estimated construction cost for the Conceptual Solution No. 2, without the
       speed cushions, is $84,000, which does not include any costs associated with
       right of way acquisition or utility impacts. A copy of the construction cost
       estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       In addition to Conceptual Solution Nos. 1 and 2, it was agreed at the February
       22, 2007 field meeting that extension track striping should be installed at the
       signalized intersection of Boyden Avenue and Elmwood Avenue to direct
       motorists through the intersection.

       The following traffic calming measures were deemed inappropriate for this
       roadway as noted:

       ¾ On-Street Parking or a Bicycle Lane, both of which are a form of roadway
         narrowing, provide a perception of enclosure to the motorist, and in turn


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   36
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



         reduce speed. However, since off-street parking is readily available the
         demand for on-street parking may not be adequate to provide a constant
         stimulus. The striping for the parking stalls and/or a bicycle lane alone will not
         provide adequate stimuli to significantly reduce travel speeds.
       ¾ Chicanes were deemed inappropriate due to the close proximity of the side
         streets with one another and the existing non-tangential horizontal alignment.
       ¾ Center Islands would restrict access to and from driveways from one
         direction.    In addition, currently available on-street parking would be
         eliminated and thereby result in a net increase in travel speeds.
       ¾ Traffic Circles were deemed inappropriate since they would most likely
         require the relocation of existing crosswalks to locations with lower driver
         expectancy. In addition, traffic circles would most likely require modifications
         to the existing curblines, which may require additional right-of-way and would
         impact the residences in the vicinity of the intersections.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1 is our recommended alternative since it addresses the
       issue of excessive speeding as identified in the traffic survey and increases
       pedestrian safety.


   3. Prospect Street: The traffic survey identified speeding as a hazard along this
      roadway.

       Existing Conditions: Prospect Street within the Township of Maplewood is an
       undivided two-lane urban collector running west to east with an approximate
       roadway width of 36 feet. The studied limits extend along Prospect Street
       between Springfield Avenue and the municipal boundary between Maplewood
       Township and South Orange Township. Prospect Street has a posted speed
       limit of 25 mph and is under the jurisdiction of Maplewood Township. All of the
       intersections along Prospect Street are unsignalized with the exception of
       Springfield Avenue, Tuscan Road and Parker Avenue which are signalized. A
       flashing signal is located at the intersection of Prospect Street and Harvard
       Avenue.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
       Parking is prohibited at all times along Prospect Street northbound from Harvard
       Avenue to a point 100 feet north of Harvard Avenue and to a point 145 feet south
       of Harvard Avenue; and along Prospect Street southbound from Harvard Avenue
       to a point 110 feet north of Harvard Avenue and to a point 110 feet south of
       Harvard Avenue. Stopping and standing is prohibited at all times along Prospect
       Street northbound from Parker Avenue to a point 140 feet north thereof, from
       Parker Avenue to a point 285 feet south thereof and along Prospect Street
       southbound from Parker Avenue to a point 155 feet south thereof. Stopping and
       standing is also prohibited along Prospect Street northbound from Springfield
       Avenue to a point 50 feet north thereof and along Prospect Street southbound


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   37
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       from a point 160 feet north of Springfield Avenue to a point 70 feet north thereof
       and from Springfield Avenue to a point 80 feet north thereof. No stopping or
       standing is permitted along Prospect Street northbound from Tuscan Road to a
       point 160 feet north thereof and from Tuscan Road to a point 105 feet south
       thereof.

       Parking is restricted to a time period of two hours along Prospect Street
       northbound between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. on school days from Elmwood
       Avenue to a point 120 feet south of Parker Avenue, from Oakland Road to a
       point 120 feet south of Elmwood Avenue and from a point 140 feet north of
       Parker Avenue to the South Orange-Maplewood line. Parking is restricted to a
       time period of one hour along Prospect Street northbound between 9:00 A.M.
       and 7:00 P.M. everyday from a point 50 feet north of Springfield Avenue to a
       point 50 feet north thereof. Parking is restricted to a time period of two hours
       along Prospect Street southbound between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. on school
       days from Beach Street to a point 120 feet north of Parker Avenue, from Franklin
       Place to a point 120 feet north of Oakland Road, from a point 155 feet south of
       Parker Avenue to a point 120 feet north of Franklin Place and from the South
       Orange-Maplewood line to a point 120 feet north of Beach Street. Parking is
       restricted to a time period of one hour along Prospect Street southbound
       between 9:00 A.M. and 7:00 P.M. everyday from a point 80 feet north of
       Springfield Avenue to a point 20 feet north thereof.

       The land use along Prospect Street within the project limits is basically residential
       with the majority of the residences having off-street parking.

       Conceptual Solutions: The following summarizes three conceptual solutions
       which address the need for traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety
       improvements as identified in the traffic survey for Prospect Street. Input
       received at the February 22, 2007 field meeting with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer was incorporated, where appropriate, in the recommended
       improvements.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1: While only excessive speeding was identified as a
       hazard along Prospect Street, numerous pedestrian crossings exist along
       Prospect Street within the project limits and Conceptual Solution No. 1 reflects
       this fact.
       ¾ Install bump-outs at the following intersecting roadways with Prospect Street.

           Elmwood Avenue
           Madison Avenue
           Park Road
           Burnett Terrace
           Oakview Avenue
           Courter Avenue
           North Crescent
           Harvard Avenue

Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                    38
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County




         The bump-outs will increase intersection sight distance, increase visibility for
         and of the pedestrian, and may reduce travel speeds along Prospect Street.
       ¾ Provide "ladder" striping within each crosswalk so as to increase their visibility
         to motorists.
       ¾ Install chicanes between the intersections of Tuscan Road and Harvard
         Avenue and between Jennifer Lane and Franklin Place.

       The estimated construction cost for Conceptual Solution No. 1 is $189,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with the acquisition of right of way,
       potential drainage modifications or utility impacts. A copy of the construction cost
       estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       Conceptual Solution No. 2:
       ¾ Install raised intersections at the following intersecting roadways with
         Prospect Street.

           Elmwood Avenue
           Park Road
           Oakview Avenue
           Courter Avenue
           North Crescent
           Harvard Avenue

         The raised intersections will increase visibility for and of the pedestrian and
         will reduce travel speeds along Prospect Street.
       ¾ Provide "ladder" striping within each crosswalk as recommended in
         Conceptual Solution No. 1.

       The estimated construction cost for Conceptual Solution No. 2 is $78,000, which
       does not include any costs associated with the acquisition of right of way,
       potential drainage modifications or utility impacts. A copy of the construction cost
       estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       Conceptual Solution No. 3 proposes to reduce speeds along Prospect Street
       within the project limits by narrowing the roadway with a center island, essentially
       creating a boulevard effect. The roadway width would be narrowed to provide a
       12-foot wide travel lane on either side of the center island, as shown in Figure 6.
       The center island will reduce travel speeds along Prospect Street and provide a
       refuge for pedestrians crossing the street. In addition, "ladder" striping within
       each crosswalk should be provided as recommended in Conceptual Solution No.
       1. It was assumed that the pavement design for Prospect Street was continuous
       for the cross section of roadway. The quality of the drainage system along
       Prospect Street will also need to be evaluated since the travel lanes would be
       shifted closer to the curbline.



Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   39
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       The estimated construction cost for Conceptual Solution No. 3 is $422,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with the acquisition of right of way,
       potential drainage modifications or utility impacts. A copy of the construction cost
       estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       The following traffic calming measures were deemed inappropriate for this
       roadway as noted:

       ¾ On-Street Parking or a Bicycle Lane, both of which are a form of roadway
         narrowing, provide a perception of enclosure to the motorist, and in turn
         reduce speed. However, since off-street parking is readily available the
         demand for on-street parking may not be adequate to provide a constant
         stimulus. The striping for the parking stalls and/or a bicycle lane alone will not
         provide adequate stimuli to significantly reduce travel speeds.
       ¾ Traffic Circles were deemed inappropriate since they would most likely
         require the relocation of existing crosswalks to locations with lower driver
         expectancy.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1 is our recommended alternative since it addresses the
       issue of excessive speeding as identified in the traffic survey and increases
       pedestrian safety.


   4. Baker Street: The traffic survey identified speeding, limited visibility resulting
      from the overpass and significant pedestrian traffic as hazards along this
      roadway.

       Existing Conditions: Baker Street is an undivided two-lane local road running
       east to west with an approximate roadway width of 40 feet. It has an
       approximate overall length of 0.5 miles with four unsignalized intersections and a
       traffic signal at the intersection of Baker Street and Valley Street. The studied
       limits extend along Baker Street between Valley Street and Maplewood Avenue.
       Baker Street has a posted speed limit of 25 mph and is under the jurisdiction of
       Maplewood Township.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
       Parking is prohibited at all times along Baker Street westbound from Valley
       Street to a point 270 feet west thereof. Parking is prohibited at all times along
       Baker Street eastbound from Valley Street to a point 250 feet west thereof and
       from the Erie-Lackawanna Railroad to Maplewood Avenue. Parking along Baker
       Street westbound is restricted to a time period of one hour between 9:00 A.M.
       and 7:00 P.M. everyday from the Erie-Lackawanna Railroad to Maplewood
       Avenue. Parking along Baker Street westbound is restricted to a time period of
       thirty minutes at all times from Burnet Street to a point 190 feet northwest
       thereof. Parking along Baker Street eastbound is restricted to a time period of


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   40
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       three hours between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. everyday from Burnet Street to a
       point 255 feet west thereof. Parking along Baker Street westbound is restricted
       to a time period of fifteen minutes at all times from Dunnell Road to a point 160
       feet east thereof.

       The land use along Baker Street is basically recreational. Memorial Park and the
       Maplewood Country Club are located along Baker Street as well as Maplewood
       Middle School and the Maplewood Memorial Library.

       Conceptual Solutions: The following summarizes the conceptual solution which
       addresses the need for traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety
       improvements as identified in the traffic survey for Baker Street. Input received
       at the February 22, 2007 field meeting with the Maplewood Township Engineer
       was incorporated, where appropriate, in the recommended improvements.

       The conceptual solution proposes to reduce speeding and improve pedestrian
       safety by installing a bump-out at the intersection of Baker Street and Burnett
       Street. Mid-block narrowing would be installed along Baker Street in the vicinity
       of Dunnell Road. The bump-out and mid-block narrowing would reduce the
       crossing time for pedestrians while improving their visibility to motorists. In
       addition, it is recommended that the pedestrian crosswalks include "ladder"
       striping to increase their visibility to motorists. It is also recommended that a
       speed study be performed along Baker Street to determine the effectiveness of
       speed cushions.

       The estimated construction cost for the Conceptual Solution is $23,000, which
       does not include any costs associated with right of way acquisition or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       The following traffic calming measures were deemed inappropriate for this
       roadway as noted:

       ¾ Chicanes were deemed inappropriate due to the existing non-tangential
         horizontal alignment along Baker Street.
       ¾ Center Islands would restrict access to and from driveways from one
         direction.    In addition, currently available on-street parking would be
         eliminated and thereby result in a net increase in travel speeds.
       ¾ Traffic Circles were deemed inappropriate since they would most likely
         require the relocation of existing crosswalks to locations with lower driver
         expectancy and would eliminate much of the existing on-street parking along
         Baker Street.


   5. Jacoby Street: The traffic study indicated that some motorists utilize Jacoby
      Street as a bypass route between Springfield Avenue and Boyden Avenue.
      Speeding and limited sight distance has also been noted as a hazard along this


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                41
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       roadway. It was also noted during the field meeting that 44th street is also used
       as a bypass route to get to Chancellor Avenue.

       Existing Conditions: Jacoby Street is an undivided two-lane local road running
       south to north with an approximate roadway width of 29 feet. The studied limits
       extend along Jacoby Street between Boyden Avenue and Springfield Avenue.
       Jacoby Street has a posted speed limit of 25 mph and is under the jurisdiction of
       Maplewood Township. 44th Street is an undivided two-lane local road running
       east to west with an approximate roadway width of 30 feet and extends from
       Jacoby Street to Chancellor Avenue.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
       Stopping and standing is prohibited along Jacoby Street northbound from a point
       150 feet north of Boyden Avenue to a point 150 feet south of Boyden Avenue.
       Stopping and standing is prohibited along Jacoby Street southbound from
       Springfield Avenue to a point 150 feet south thereof. Parking along Jacoby Street
       is restricted to a time period of two hours between 9:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.
       everyday except Sunday from Springfield Avenue to a point 200 feet south
       thereof. Parking along Jacoby Street is restricted to a time period of three hours
       between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. everyday from Springfield Avenue to 44th
       Street. Parking is prohibited at all times along 44th Street eastbound from Jacoby
       Street to Chancellor Avenue. Parking along 44th Street westbound is restricted to
       a time period of three hours between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. everyday from
       Jacoby Street to Chancellor Avenue.

       The land use along Jacoby Street is basically residential and commercial. The
       land use along 44th Street is basically residential. The majority of the single-
       family residences within the project area have off-street parking.

       Conceptual Solutions: The following summarizes the conceptual solution which
       addresses the need for traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety
       improvements as identified in the traffic survey for Jacoby Street. Input received
       at the February 22, 2007 field meeting with the Maplewood Township Engineer
       was incorporated, where appropriate, in the recommended improvements.

       ¾ Convert 44th Street into a one-way street towards Chancellor Avenue to
         reduce the amount of cut-through traffic along this roadway and Jacoby
         Street.
       ¾ Construct a concrete center island along Springfield Avenue at Jacoby Street
         to create a right-in, right-out only operation. This will further reduce the
         number of motorists utilizing this roadway as a bypass.

       The estimated construction cost for the Conceptual Solution is $32,000, which
       does not include any costs associated with right of way acquisition or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                 42
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County




       The following traffic calming measures were deemed inappropriate for this
       roadway as noted:

       ¾ On-Street Parking or a Bicycle Lane, both of which are a form of roadway
         narrowing, provide a perception of enclosure to the motorist, and in turn
         reduce speed. However, since on-street parking is readily available the
         demand for on-street parking may not be adequate to provide a constant
         stimulus. The striping for the parking stalls and/or a bicycle lane alone will not
         provide adequate stimuli to significantly reduce travel speeds.
       ¾ Chicanes were deemed inappropriate due to the close proximity of the
         residential driveways with one another and the short length of roadway
         studied.
       ¾ Center Islands would restrict access to and from driveways from one
         direction.   In addition, currently available on-street parking would be
         eliminated and thereby result in a net increase in travel speeds.
       ¾ Traffic Circles were deemed inappropriate since they would most likely
         require modifications to the existing curblines, which may require additional
         right-of-way and would impact the residences in the vicinity of the
         intersections.


V. ADDITIONAL LOCATIONS

   1. Sommer Avenue including Hubert Place, Osborne Terrace and Girard
      Place: The traffic survey identified this collection of roadways for speeding and
      as a bypass route between Valley Street and Prospect Street/Springfield Avenue.

       Existing Conditions: Sommer
                                                            G
       Avenue,       Hubert   Place,                         ira
                                                                rd
       Osborne Terrace and Girard                                    Pl
       Place are all undivided two-
       lane    local    roads    with
                                                                           Pl




       approximate roadway widths of
                                                                          rt
                                                                 be




       29 feet. All roadways have a
                                                                                                       r
                                                               Hu




                                                                                                     Te




       posted speed limit of 25 mph
                                                                                                 n e




       and are under the jurisdiction                                     So
                                                                                              or




                                                                               m
                                                                                               b




       of Maplewood Township.
                                                                                            Os




                                                                                   m
                                                                                       er
                                                              Av
       According      to    Maplewood                            en
       Township       ordinance,   no                               ue
       vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking
       lot between the hours of 2:00
       A.M. and 6:00 A.M. No other parking restrictions exist in the ordinance for
       Sommer Avenue, Hubert Place, Osborne Terrace or Girard Place.


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                                43
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County




       The land use along Sommer Avenue, Hubert Place, Osborne Terrace and Girard
       Place is basically residential. The majority of the single-family residences within
       the project area have off-street parking. Tuscan Elementary School is located
       along Harvard Avenue between Valley Street and Osborne Terrace, which is
       immediately north of this collection of roadways.

       Conceptual Solutions: The following summarizes two conceptual solutions
       which addresses the need for traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety
       improvements as identified in the traffic survey for Sommer Avenue. Input
       received at the February 22, 2007 field meeting with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer was incorporated, where appropriate, in the recommended
       improvements.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1 proposes to construct traffic circles along Sommer
       Avenue at its intersections with Hubert Place and Osborne Terrace and speed
       cushions along Girard Place between Valley Street and Hubert Place and Hubert
       Place and Osborne Terrace. This would reduce speeding and deter vehicles
       from using these roadways as bypasses since vehicles would be forced to slow
       down along each roadway. The traffic circles would include pavers or other
       treatment to create a mountable curb for larger vehicles.

       The estimated construction cost for the Conceptual Solution No. 1 is $32,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with right of way acquisition or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       Conceptual Solution No. 2:
       ¾ Install raised intersections at the following locations:

           Sommer Avenue and Hubert Place
           Sommer Avenue and Osborne Terrace
           Girard Place and Hubert Place
           Girard Place and Osborne Terrace

       The raised intersections will increase visibility for and of the pedestrian, reduce
       travel speeds, and may deter motorists from using this collection of roadways as
       a bypass.

       The estimated construction cost for the Conceptual Solution No. 2 is $54,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with right of way acquisition or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       The following traffic calming measures were deemed inappropriate for this
       roadway as noted:




Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   44
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       ¾ On-Street Parking or a Bicycle Lane, both of which are a form of roadway
         narrowing, provide a perception of enclosure to the motorist, and in turn
         reduce speed. However, since off-street parking is readily available the
         demand for on-street parking may not be adequate to provide a constant
         stimulus. The striping for the parking stalls and/or a bicycle lane alone will not
         provide adequate stimuli to significantly reduce travel speeds or deter
         motorists from using this collection of roadways as a bypass route.
       ¾ Chicanes were deemed inappropriate due to the close proximity of the
         driveways.
       ¾ Center Islands would restrict access to and from driveways from one
         direction.   In addition, currently available on-street parking would be
         eliminated and thereby result in a net increase in travel speeds.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1 is our recommended alternative since it addresses the
       issue of excessive speeding and bypass traffic as identified in the traffic survey.


   2. Kensington Terrace: The traffic study identified speeding as a hazard along
      this roadway. It was also noted that Kensington Terrace is used by motorists as
      a bypass for Valley Street. In addition, congestion and significant pedestrian
      traffic were identified at the intersection of Parker Avenue and Kensington
      Terrace due to Columbia High School.

       Existing       Conditions:
       Kensington Terrace is an                                                            Par
                                                                                               ker
       undivided two-lane local                                                                    A   ven
       road running south to north                            Cr o                                         ue
                                                                  we
       with     an    approximate                                   ll P
                                                                        l     ace
       roadway width of 30 feet
                                                                                       e




       and extends from Oakland
                                                                                    ac
                                                                                err




       Road to Parker Avenue.                     Edg
                                                     ew
                                                                              nT




       Parker Avenue in the                             ood
                                                            Pla
                                                                        g to




       vicinity   of   Kensington                               ce
                                                                         in




       Terrace is an undivided
                                                                      ns




       two-lane urban collector
                                                                   Ke




                                         Lin
       running west to east with            c   oln
                                                      Pla
       an approximate roadway                            ce
       width of 34 feet.       Both
       roadways have a posted
       speed limit of 25 mph and
       are under the jurisdiction of
       Maplewood Township.

       The intersection of Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace is a `T' type
       intersection with Kensington Terrace forming the stem of the `T'. The Parker
       Avenue eastbound approach consists of a through/right lane with one receiving


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                                     45
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       lane while the westbound approach consists of a left/through lane and one
       receiving lane. The Kensington Terrace approach of the intersection consists of
       a left/right lane with one receiving lane. The intersection is controlled by a stop
       sign on the Kensington Terrace approach. The intersection is illuminated with a
       single luminaire mounted on a utility pole in the northwest quadrant of the
       intersection. Sidewalks currently exist along both sides of Parker Avenue and
       Kensington Terrace. Crosswalks exist along all approaches. A S1-1, School
       Crossing, sign with a supplemental W16-7p, Diagonal Arrow, sign is posted
       along both of the Parker Avenue approaches at the intersection.

       According to Maplewood Township ordinance, no vehicle shall be parked on any
       thoroughfare or public parking lot between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
       Stopping and standing is prohibited along Kensington Terrace northbound from
       Crowell Place to Parker Avenue. Parking is prohibited along both sides of
       Kensington Terrace between the hours of 9:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M.
       to 3:00 P.M. on school days unless those vehicles are owned by a resident
       parking in front of their residence, a contractor, service and delivery vehicle or an
       emergency vehicle as stated in the provisions of 257-18B. Parking along
       Kensington Terrace is restricted to a time period of two hours between 8:00 A.M.
       and 4:00 P.M. on school days from Oakland Road to Parker Avenue. Parking
       along Kensington Terrace northbound is restricted to a time period of two hours
       between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. on school days from Oakland Road to Crowell
       Place. Parking along Kensington Terrace southbound is restricted to a time
       period of two hours between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. on school days from
       Oakland Road to Parker Avenue.

       Stopping and standing is prohibited along Parker Avenue westbound from Valley
       Street to Academy Street. Parking is prohibited along both sides of Parker
       Avenue between the hours of 9:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. to 3:00 P.M.
       on school days unless those vehicles are owned by a resident parking in front of
       their residence, a contractor, service and delivery vehicle or an emergency
       vehicle as stated in the provisions of 257-18B. Parking along Parker Avenue
       eastbound is restricted to a time period of two hours between 8:00 A.M. and 4:00
       P.M. on school days from Valley Street to Summit Avenue.

       The land use in the vicinity of Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace is basically
       residential. The majority of the single-family residences within the project area
       have off-street parking. Columbia High School is immediately adjacent to the
       intersection of Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace.

       Traffic Analyses: Keller and Kirkpatrick, along with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer's Office, performed a classified manual turning movement count
       program for the unsignalized intersections of Parker Avenue and Kensington
       Terrace and Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place on Wednesday, October
       18, 2006 between the hours of 6:00 and 9:30 A.M, 11:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M.,



Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                    46
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       and 3:00 and 6:00 P.M. The count data was classified in 15-minute increments
       into the following categories:

       Pedestrians
       Automobiles / Light Trucks
       Medium Trucks ­ single unit trucks
       Heavy Trucks/Buses ­ tractor trailers

       Keller and Kirkpatrick summarized the count data in a traffic flow diagram for
       each intersection, which indicates the AM, midday and PM peak hour turning
       volumes. A copy of the traffic flow diagram can be found in Appendix C.

       Level of Service (LOS) and queue analyses using Synchro 6 were performed for
       the existing conditions at the intersections of Parker Avenue and Kensington
       Terrace and Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place. The results of the
       Synchro analyses are summarized in the following table:

               Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace ­ Existing Conditions
                                                   AM                   Midday               PM
                   Lane Group
                                             LOS        Queue       LOS       Queue    LOS       Queue
          Parker Avenue Eastbound TR        A (0.0)        0    A (0.0)          0    A (0.0)      0
          Parker Avenue Westbound LT        A (2.0)        5    A (0.7)          1    A (1.0)      3
        Kensington Terrace Northbound LR C (14.3)          35   B (10.4)         5    B (13.3)     8
                     Overall                A (3.8)            A (1.2)                A (1.0)
       LOS (Delay in seconds); Queue = 95th Percentile Queue Length in feet

              Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place ­ Existing Conditions
                                                      AM                Midday               PM
                       Lane Group
                                               LOS      Queue        LOS      Queue    LOS       Queue
        Edgewood Place Eastbound LTR         C (18.6)      22       A (9.2)      3    B (10.1)     4
        Edgewood Place Westbound LTR         C (16.3)      24       A (8.8)      1    A (10.0)     3
        Kensington Terrace Northbound LTR     A (0.7)      1        A (1.6)      0    A (1.1)      0
        Kensington Terrace Southbound LTR A (1.5)          3        A (1.9)      0    A (1.3)      1
                      Overall                A (5.1)            A (5.0)               A (4.0)
       LOS (Delay in seconds); Queue = 95th Percentile Queue Length in feet

       As indicated in the analyses, all of the approaches to the intersection of Parker
       Avenue and Kensington Terrace operate at a LOS `B' or better during each of the
       peak hours with the exception of Kensington Terrace during the AM peak hour,
       which operates at a LOS `C'. All of the approaches to the intersection of
       Kensington Terrace and Edgewood place operate at a LOS `B' or better during
       each of the peak hours with the exception of Edgewood Place during the AM
       peak hour, which operates at a LOS `C'.


Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                              47
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       Conceptual Solutions: The following summarizes two conceptual solutions
       which addresses the need for traffic calming measures and/or traffic safety
       improvements as identified in the traffic survey for Kensington Terrace. Input
       received at the February 22, 2007 field meeting with the Maplewood Township
       Engineer was incorporated, where appropriate, in the recommended
       improvements.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1 proposes to construct a traffic circle at the
       intersection of Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place and speed cushions
       along Kensington Terrace between Parker Avenue and Crowell Place, Crowell
       Place and Edgewood Place, Edgewood Place and Lincoln Place, and Lincoln
       Place and Oakland Road. This would reduce speeding and deter vehicles from
       using this roadway as a bypass since vehicles would be forced to slow down
       along the roadway. In addition, the traffic circle would include pavers or other
       treatment to create a mountable curb for larger vehicles.

       The estimated construction cost for the Conceptual Solution No. 1 is $37,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with right of way acquisition or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       Conceptual Solution No. 2:
       ¾ Install raised intersections at the following intersecting roadways with
         Kensington Terrace.

           Crowell Place
           Edgewood Place
           Lincoln Place

       The estimated construction cost for the Conceptual Solution No. 2 is $39,000,
       which does not include any costs associated with right of way acquisition or utility
       impacts. A copy of the construction cost estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       In addition to Conceptual Solution Nos. 1 and 2, the following lists the
       recommended improvements to the intersection of Parker Avenue and
       Kensington Terrace to address the significant pedestrian volume:

       ¾ Install bump-outs in the southwest and southeast quadrants and along the
         north side of Parker Avenue adjacent to Columbia High School. The bump-
         outs will, reduce pedestrian crossing distances, increase visibility for and of
         the pedestrian and may reduce travel speeds along Parker Avenue.
       ¾ The pedestrian crosswalks should include "ladder" striping as recommended
         in Conceptual Solution No. 1.

       The estimated construction cost for the intersection of Parker Avenue and
       Kensington Terrace is $10,800, which does not include any costs associated with



Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                   48
Traffic Calming Needs Study ­ Township of Maplewood, Essex County



       right of way acquisition or utility impacts.          A copy of the construction cost
       estimate can be found in Appendix E.

       A plan copy of the Conceptual Solution for this intersection can be found in
       Appendix F.

       The following traffic calming measures were deemed inappropriate for this
       roadway as noted:

       ¾ On-Street Parking or a Bicycle Lane, both of which are a form of roadway
         narrowing, provide a perception of enclosure to the motorist, and in turn
         reduce speed. However, off-street parking is readily available and residents
         along this roadway expressed concern over high school students loitering in
         the area should parking be permitted. The striping for the parking stalls
         and/or a bicycle lane alone will not provide adequate stimuli to significantly
         reduce travel speeds or deter motorists from using this roadway as a bypass
         route.
       ¾ Chicanes were deemed inappropriate due to the close proximity of the
         residential driveways with one another and the short length of roadway
         studied.
       ¾ Center Islands would restrict access to and from driveways from one
         direction.   In addition, currently available on-street parking would be
         eliminated and thereby result in a net increase in travel speeds.

       Conceptual Solution No. 1 is our recommended alternative along with the
       improvements at the intersection of Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace
       since it addresses the issue of excessive speeding as identified in the traffic
       survey and increases pedestrian safety. This solution will also discourage the
       use of this roadway as a bypass route.




Keller & Kirkpatrick
August 2007                                                                                    49
         APPENDIX A


Meeting Minutes / Correspondence
                        Memorandum of Meeting

To:                   File

From:                 Bernie Boerchers, Keller and Kirkpatrick

Date:                 February 26, 2007

Project Name:         Maplewood Township Traffic Calming
                      Township of Maplewood, Essex County

Project Number:       2006669.00

Subject:              Field Meeting

Copy:                 Attendees




A field meeting was conducted for the above referenced project at 10:00 A.M. on Thursday,
February 22, 2007. Those in attendance were as follows:

Attendee              Bureau / Company                                         Phone
Richard Calbi         Maplewood Township Engineer                              973 762-8120
Matthew Cho           Maplewood Township Engineer's Office                     973 762-8120
Bernie Boerchers      Keller and Kirkpatrick (K&K)                             908 236-9001
Julia Steponanko      K&K                                                      908 236-9001

The purpose of the meeting was to verify the problem statement, review the existing conditions
and discuss conceptual traffic calming solutions at the following locations:

¾ Intersections:
  · Parker Avenue and Valley Street
  · Jefferson Avenue and Maplewood Avenue
  · Jefferson Avenue and Woodland / Walton Roads
  · Elmwood Avenue and Prospect Street
  · Jefferson Avenue and Valley Street
  · Cedar Lane and Ridgewood Road

¾ Roadways:
  · Ridgewood Road
  · Boyden Avenue
  · Prospect Street
  · Parker Avenue
   ·   Baker Street
   ·   Jacoby Street

¾ Other Locations:
  · Sommer Avenue including Hubert Place, Osborne Terrace, and Girard Place
  · Kensington Terrace

The following items were discussed at each location:

¾ Parker Avenue and Valley Street

   1. The problem statement for this signalized intersection identifies capacity issues
      during peak commuting hours and school time periods of entry and dismissal. It also
      recommends the investigation of pedestrian safety enhancements with respect to the
      significant pedestrian activity, specifically schoolchildren from Columbia High School
      located in the northeast quadrant of the intersection.

   2. Mr. Boerchers stated that based on the recently collected traffic count data and the
      existing timing directive that the intersection operates at an acceptable Level of
      Service (LOS) during each of the peak hours. However, the attendees did observe
      vehicles traveling either north or south along Valley Street passing left turning
      vehicles on the right thereby creating a "shadowing effect".

   3. Mr. Calbi recommended the installation of bump-outs to narrow the travel lanes along
      Valley Street and Parker Avenue to reduce the potential for motorists passing left
      turning vehicles on the right and thereby reduce the number of sideswipe crashes. It
      was added that the bump-outs would reduce pedestrian crossing times.

   4. Mr. Boerchers recommended replacing the existing traffic signal trombone mast arms
      and eight-inch signal heads with standard traffic signal mast arms and twelve-inch
      signal heads to increase signal visibility and thereby reduce the number of rear end
      crashes.

   5. The attendees observed that some of the existing pedestrian signal heads were not
      functioning and that others had poor visibility. In addition, it was noted that
      pedestrian signal heads were not present in the northeast quadrant of the
      intersection. Mr. Boerchers recommended the installation of countdown pedestrian
      signals in the northeast quadrant and the replacement of all of the existing pedestrian
      signal heads with countdown pedestrian signal heads to increase pedestrian
      awareness.

   6. The attendees agreed that additional "No Right Turn on Red" signs should be added
      at the appropriate locations to supplement existing signing.

   7. It was suggested that an exclusive left turn lane be added along the westbound
      approach of Parker Avenue due to the significant left turn volume along this
      approach. Mr. Boerchers stated that the addition of an exclusive left turn lane along
      this approach would require widening along the eastbound approach along which
      there are physical constraints preventing such a widening. He added that the



                                                                                            2
     addition of an exclusive left turn lane would also increase the pedestrian crossing
     time and that the intersection currently operates at an acceptable LOS.

  8. Mr. Cabli noted that the County would be responsible for the proposed improvements
     at this intersection.

  9. Subsequent to the meeting it was observed that pedestrians cross at the unsignalized
     intersection of Valley Street and Cromwell Place, which is located approximately 420
     feet to the south of the signalized intersection of Valley Street and Parker Avenue.
     While pedestrian handicaps exist at the intersection of Valley Street and Cromwell
     Place, there are no marked crosswalks.

¾ Jefferson Avenue and Maplewood Avenue

  1. The problem statement for the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and Maplewood
     Avenue identifies limited intersection sight distance along with a steep grade and
     speeding along Jefferson Avenue as the causes of a significant number of crashes.
     The intersection is currently controlled by stop signs along the Maplewood Avenue
     approaches. In addition, a flashing signal and approach warning signs exist to warn
     motorists of the hazardous intersection.

  2. It was noted that the existing profile along Jefferson Avenue west of Maplewood
     Avenue is substandard and severely limits both stopping sight distance along
     Jefferson Avenue and intersection sight distance from both approaches of
     Maplewood Avenue. It was also noted that intersection sight distance is restricted by
     existing vegetation and grading. Mr. Calbi stated that the Township has an ordinance
     restricting obstructions/vegetation within the sight triangles at intersections and that
     he would provide K&K with a copy of the ordinance. The attendees agreed that the
     sight triangles should be cleared of all obstructions.

  3. It was noted that the existing pavement markings were in poor condition.

  4. Motorists were observed speeding along Jefferson Avenue.

  5. It was noted that a previous suggestion to address crashes at this intersection was
     the installation of a four-way stop condition. It was agreed by the attendees that the
     installation of stop signs along Jefferson Avenue would most likely increase the
     number of rear end crashes along Jefferson Avenue due to the substandard profile.

  6. Mr. Boerchers stated that one possible solution to address right angle crashes at this
     intersection would be the installation of a roundabout. He added that a roundabout
     may also increase rear end crashes along Jefferson Avenue, but that the delay would
     most likely be less than that of a four-way stop and therefore the frequency of rear
     end crashes should be less. He noted that the apron, while being distinct, would
     most likely have to be a traversable surface to accommodate larger vehicles that may
     be traveling to and from Maplewood Village along Maplewood Avenue.

  7. The attendees agreed that the roadway width for Jefferson Avenue, especially west
     of Maplewood Avenue, should be reduced to discourage speeding. Options that



                                                                                            3
      were discussed for narrowing Jefferson Avenue included the installation of a sidewalk
      along the eastbound direction, striping for a bicycle lane and/or parking, and/or bump-
      outs at the corners of the intersection. It was noted that the demand may not exist for
      on-street parking and thereby reduce its' effectiveness as a traffic calming measure.

   8. The attendees discussed the possibility of bringing the substandard profile along
      Jefferson Avenue into conformance with current standards. This would significantly
      improve both stopping and intersection sight distance at this location. It was agreed
      that such a modification would significantly impact adjoining properties and require
      the reconstruction of existing retaining walls and driveways. It would also impact
      existing utilities. Mr. Boerchers stated that a detour would most likely be required to
      reduce the grade along Jefferson Avenue. He added that K&K would survey the
      existing profile along Jefferson Avenue and develop a limited number of critical cross
      sections to determine the feasibility of reducing the grade along Jefferson Avenue.

   9. Mr. Calbi stated that the Maplewood Township Police would perform a speed study
      along Jefferson Avenue prior to any improvements so that a before and after analysis
      could be performed to determine the effectiveness of those improvements.

¾ Jefferson Avenue and Woodland / Walton Roads

   1. The problem statement for the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and Woodland /
      Walton Roads identifies limited intersection sight distance and speeding along the
      approach roadways. The intersection is currently controlled by stop signs along
      Woodland Road and Walton Road, which are offset. This intersection is located
      approximately 420 feet west of the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and Maplewood
      Avenue.

   2. It was observed by the attendees that intersection sight distance is restricted by
      existing vegetation and grading within the sight triangles. The attendees agreed that
      the sight triangles should be cleared of all obstructions.

   3. As noted at the previous location, the existing profile along Jefferson Avenue, in this
      case east of Woodland / Walton Roads, is substandard and severely limits both
      stopping sight distance along Jefferson Avenue and intersection sight distance from
      Woodland / Walton Roads. See previous location for discussion regarding a possible
      modification to the existing profile along Jefferson Avenue.

   4. It was noted that pavement markings, including stop lines, do not exist along each of
      the approach roadways and that the appropriate striping should be installed as a
      minimum. It was also recommended that a crosswalk be installed along the
      eastbound approach of Jefferson Avenue and that signing to direct pedestrians to this
      crosswalk be added in the appropriate corners of the intersection.

   5. As at the previous location, the attendees agreed that the roadway width for Jefferson
      Avenue should be reduced to discourage speeding and recommended options similar
      to those recommended at the previous location.

   6. Mr. Calbi stated that a crash involving a Maplewood Township police vehicle recently



                                                                                            4
      occurred at this intersection and that a consultant performed a thorough investigation
      of the crash. He added that his office would provide K&K with a copy of the
      consultant's report summarizing the investigation and its conclusions.

¾ Elmwood Avenue and Prospect Street

   1. The problem statement for the intersection of Elmwood Avenue and Prospect Street
      identifies turning difficulties from Elmwood Avenue, which forms the stem of this `T'
      intersection, onto Prospect Street along with speeding along Prospect Street. In
      addition, significant pedestrian activity has been identified with the crosswalks at this
      intersection. The intersection is controlled by a stop sign located along Elmwood
      Avenue.

   2. The attendees observed that intersection sight distance from Elmwood Avenue is
      obstructed by vegetation located within the sight triangles and the profile of Prospect
      Avenue south of Elmwood Avenue. The attendees agreed that the sight triangles
      should be cleared of all obstructions.

   3. To enhance pedestrian safety, it was recommended that "ladder" striping be added to
      the crosswalks to increase their visibility, additional warning signs be installed along
      the approach roadways to provide advance warning to motorists and that bump-outs
      be provided to reduce pedestrian crossing times and narrow the roadway width of
      Prospect Avenue in an attempt to reduce speeds along the same.

¾ Jefferson Avenue and Valley Street

   1. The problem statement for the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and Valley Street
      identifies limited intersection sight distance along with a steep grade along Jefferson
      Avenue, which forms the stem of this `T' intersection, as hazards at this intersection
      to both motorists and pedestrians.

   2. Mr. Boerchers stated that based on the recently collected traffic volumes and crash
      data that a traffic signal is not warranted at this intersection.

   3. It was noted that the intersection sight distance from Jefferson Avenue was limited
      due to parking on Valley Street and existing vegetation. The attendees agreed that
      the sight triangles should be cleared of all obstructions. K&K will overlay the required
      sight triangles onto an aerial of the intersection to determine the limits of no parking
      along Valley Street so as not to obstruct intersection sight distance from Jefferson
      Avenue. Mr. Boerchers recommended the installation of bump-outs in both the
      southwest and northwest corners of the intersection to reduce pedestrian crossing
      times and allow for the relocation of the stop line along Jefferson Avenue further to
      the east thereby increasing intersection sight distance.

   4. Mr. Calbi suggested that the existing near side NJ Transit bus stop located along
      Valley Street southbound, north of Jefferson Avenue, be relocated south of Jefferson
      Avenue as a far side bus stop. It was noted that this would require the elimination of
      existing on street parking along Valley Street in front of local businesses. It was
      added, however, that these businesses have off street parking behind their buildings.



                                                                                             5
   5. It was observed that the existing centerline striping along Jefferson Avenue was in
      poor condition and requires maintenance.

   6. It was observed that the street name signing for Jefferson Avenue was obscure. It
      was recommended that either the street name signing be enhanced or that advanced
      warning signs for Jefferson Avenue be installed along Valley Street.

   7. It was agreed by the attendees that the implementation of additional pedestrian safety
      measures need to be investigated including modified crosswalks and signing for
      enhanced visibility and advanced warning for motorists.

¾ Cedar Lane and Ridgewood Road

   1. The problem statement for the intersection of Cedar Lane and Ridgewood Road
      identifies limited intersection sight distance as a hazard at this intersection. The
      intersection is currently controlled by stop signs located along Cedar Lane. Buildings
      are located within three of the four sight triangles.

   2. Mr. Boerchers stated that based on the recently collected traffic volumes and crash
      data that a four-way stop is not warranted at this intersection.

   3. The attendees observed that in addition to the existing buildings, illegally parked
      vehicles along Ridgewood Road northbound, north of Cedar Lane, were limiting the
      available intersection sight distance from Cedar Lane. It was suggested that yellow
      striping be installed in the areas of no parking. Subsequent to the meeting bump-outs
      and the widening of the existing sidewalk in front of the local businesses located
      along Ridgewood Road northbound, north of Cedar Lane, were also discussed as
      viable options.

¾ Ridgewood Road / Boyden Avenue / Prospect Street

   1. The problem statements for Ridgewood Road, Boyden Avenue and Prospect Street
      identify speeding as the main hazard along these roadways. In addition, difficult turn
      maneuvers from intersecting streets were identified as a hazard along Ridgewood
      Road.

   2. The attendees discussed such options as the addition of parking and/or bike lanes,
      bump-outs and roundabouts to narrow the travel way along these roadways and thus
      reduce the travel speed. It was also suggested that a raised median could be
      installed along Prospect Street to provide a boulevard effect, which would reduce the
      travel speed and allow for a pedestrian refuge in the middle of the roadway.

   3. It was recommended that extension track striping be installed at the intersection of
      Boyden Avenue and Elmwood Avenue to direct motorists through the intersection.




                                                                                           6
¾ Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace

   1. The intersection of Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace along with the intersection
      of Parker Avenue and Valley Street, which is located approximately 400 feet to the
      west, are immediately adjacent to Columbia High School thereby experiencing
      significant pedestrian traffic and have also been identified in the their respective
      problem statements as being congested.

   2. It was recommended that bump-outs be considered at the intersection of Parker
      Avenue and Kensington Terrace to reduce pedestrian crossing times and narrow the
      roadway.

¾ Baker Street

   1. The problem statement for Baker Street identifies speeding and limited visibility,
      resulting from the underpass, combined with heavy pedestrian traffic as hazards
      along this roadway between Maplewood Avenue and Valley Street.

   2. It was stated that the crosswalks across Baker Street between Dunnell Road and
      Burnett Street are in poor condition and that "ladder" striping, advance warning signs,
      bump-outs and/or raised crosswalks should be considered to enhance pedestrian
      safety and increase driver awareness of these pedestrian crossings.

   3. It was noted that the intersection of Baker Street and Maplewood Avenue is confusing
      to motorists and that additional signing and striping should be investigated to increase
      driver expectancy.

¾ Jacoby Street

   1. The problem statement notes that some motorists utilize Jacoby Street as a bypass
      between Springfield Avenue and Boyden Avenue. Speeding and limited sight
      distance has also been noted along Jacoby Street.

   2. Mr. Calbi stated that 44th Street is also used as a bypass route to get to Chancellor
      Avenue.

   3. It was suggested that 44th Street could be made a one-way street towards Chancellor
      Avenue or that a gate could be constructed across 44th Street and its intersection with
      Chancellor Avenue, essentially making 44th Street a dead end.

   4. It was suggested to make Jacoby Street a right-in, right-out only by constructing a
      divisional island along Springfield Avenue.

¾ Sommer Avenue including Hubert Place, Osborne Terrace and Girard Place

   1. The problem statement notes that this collection of roadways are used by motorists
      as a bypass between Valley Street and Prospect Street / Springfield Avenue and that
      speeding also occurs along these roadways.



                                                                                             7
    2. It was suggested to create a one-way street grid in this area to discourage the use of
       these roadways as bypass routes. It was also suggested to install speed tables along
       Sommer Avenue.

    3. It was agreed by the attendees that bump-outs and roundabouts should be
       investigated to reduce speed along these roadways and discourage their use as
       bypass routes.

¾ Kensington Terrace

    1. The problem statement notes that Kensington Terrace is used as a bypass for Valley
       Street and that speeding frequently occurs along Kensington Terrace.

    2. It was suggested to allow school parking along Kensington Terrace to narrow the
       travel lanes and thereby discourage the use of Kensington Terrace as a bypass
       route. It was stated that residents do not want parking along this street due to
       students loitering in the area.

    3. It was suggested to install bump-outs or speed tables along Kensington Terrace
       and/or install a roundabout at the intersection of Kensington Terrace and Edgewood
       Road to reduce the frequency of speeding and discourage the use of Kensington
       Terrace as a bypass route.

Action Items:

    ·    K&K will prepare preliminary plans indicating the conceptual solutions as discussed at this
         meeting.

    ·    The Maplewood Township Engineer's office will provide K&K with a copy of the report
         regarding the crash involving a police vehicle at the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and
         Woodland / Walton Roads.

    ·    Maplewood Township Police will perform a speed study along Jefferson Avenue.


This memorandum of record is believed to be an accurate record of the discussions at this meeting. If any of the
attendees disagree with the documented discussion, please contact Bernie Boerchers at (908) 236-9001 within 5 days of
receipt of minutes. If no comments are received, then this memorandum will be considered a true and accurate record of
this meeting.




                                                                                                                    8
 Julia Steponanko

  From:          Bernard Boerchers [bboerchers@gpinet.com]
  Sent:          Tuesday, May 08, 2007 9:28 AM
  To:            Julia Steponanko
  Subject:       FW: Traffic Summary
  Attachments: Maplewood Traffic Survey Summary.doc




Bernard J. Boerchers, P.E.
Senior Project Manager / Assistant Vice President
Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205, Lebanon, NJ 08833
ph: (908) 236-9001 x239
fax: (908) 236-9669
email: bboerchers@gpinet.com
web: www.gpinet.com

~ Celebrating 40 years in 2006! ~
-----Original Message-----
From: Richard Calbi [mailto:engineer@twp.maplewood.nj.us]
Sent: Wednesday, June 07, 2006 12:02 PM
To: 'Bernie Boerchers'
Subject: FW: Traffic Summary

Bernie,

Attached is a revised version with some more information for discussion.

Rich C.

Richard Calbi Jr. P.E.
Township Engineer
Township of Maplewood
574 Valley Street
Maplewood, NJ 07040
973-762-8120 x 3300
973-762-2894 (FAX)

-----Original Message-----
From: Matthew Cho
Sent: Wednesday, June 07, 2006 11:57 AM
To: Richard Calbi
Subject: RE: Traffic Summary

Rich,
Here are the updates. I added Jacoby, Tuscan Rd and Parker Ave to the "Roads Identified to be Problematic" and
Jefferson & Woodland/Walton to the Intersection section. Also added Kensington, Garfield and moved Harvard/Obsorne
to the "others" section. Accident data is provided as well.


Matthew Cho
Project Engineer
Township of Maplewood


7/23/2007
Engineering Department
574 Valley Street
Maplewood, New Jersey 07040
973.762.8120, ext 3501
        -----Original Message-----
        From: Richard Calbi
        Sent: Monday, June 05, 2006 10:44 AM
        To: Matthew Cho
        Subject: Traffic Summary

       Matt,

       I have P&E meeting next Tuesday. Prior to the meeting you, I and Bernie will be speaking about the survey
       summary. In preparation of that meeting please prepare a summary of accident and other pertinent data for each
       of the identified areas. Additionally please add a third category of other locations not identified by a majority, but
       known to be problem areas. The third category should include Garfield Place, Jacoby Street, Kensington Terrace
       and any others you have from the safety committee.

       Thanks

       Rich C.

       Richard Calbi Jr. P.E.
       Township Engineer
       Township of Maplewood
       574 Valley Street
       Maplewood, NJ 07040
       973-762-8120 x 3300
       973-762-2894 (FAX)




7/23/2007
                   MAPLEWOOD TRAFFIC SURVEY SUMMARY

Intersections Identified To Be Problematic (# of complaints)

1. Parker & Valley (17) - This area has been identified most frequently in the survey as
a bottleneck area during rush hours and before and after school. There are many
pedestrians in the area when school is over and the crosswalks across both streets become
very busy and pose hazards to pedestrians, especially after school.
Crash Data: 20 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

2. Boyden Ave & Springfield Ave (12) - There were numerous complaints about the
timing of the signals and the constant bottleneck during peak hours on mostly Boyden
Ave in front of the Maplewood Pool and secondly Springfield Ave.
Crash Data: 32 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

3. Baker St. & Maplewood Ave (11) - Baker St and Maplewood Ave intersection is a
difficult intersection to maneuver because of the geometry. Many residents requested
additional signs or an intersection signal be installed in this intersection. There are a lot
of pedestrians in the area and vehicle traffic which make it even more difficult. This
intersection needs to be studied further.
Crash Data: 8 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

4. Jefferson & Maplewood (11) - This intersection has been identified for numerous
deficiencies. For those who turn on to Jefferson from Maplewood, it poses a turning
hazard with limited visibility from Maplewood Ave and speeding vehicles on Jefferson.
Crash Data: 34 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

5. Jefferson & Woodland/Walton (6) ­ This intersection is adjacent to Jefferson &
Maplewood intersection and experiences similar issues with turning visibility from
Woodland and Walton going on to Jefferson and speeding issues on Jefferson. Speeding
has been noted on both Woodland and Walton streets.
Crash Data: 5 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

6. Boyden Ave & Elmwood (6) - This area has been identified as an intersection where
drivers speed on both streets as they enter the intersection. This has been identified as an
accident hazard area and a pedestrian hazard area. Also the signal timing has been
questioned.
Crash Data: 20 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

7. Elmwood & Prospect (5) - This T-intersection has been identified to be a hazardous
turn area when a left and right turn is made from Elmwood to Prospect. Cars on
Prospect speed and it is difficult for drivers who are turning from Elmwood to see them.
Additionally it has been identified as a pedestrian hazard crossing on Elmwood and
Prospect.
Crash Data: 9 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004
8. Jefferson & Valley (5) - This T-intersection has been identified to be a visibility
hazard when a right and left turn is made from Jefferson to Valley St with the left turn
being especially difficult. There is an incline going on to Valley from Jefferson which
makes the turn more difficult. Additionally, pedestrians crossing Jefferson walking on
Valley are at risk from cars pulling too far to turn on to Valley from Jefferson.
Crash Data: 13 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

9. Cedar Lane and Ridgewood (4) - This four-way intersection has been noted due to a
hazardous turn area when making a left or right turn from Cedar Lane to Ridgewood Ave,
especially going downhill on Cedar Lane. There is speeding on Ridgewood and the
turning visibility is poor. Additionally there are pedestrians and joggers on Ridgewood
Ave that pose a hazard for cars making this turn.
Crash Data: 2 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

10. Tuscan Road and Valley St. (4) - This T-intersection has been identified to be a
hazardous turn area when a left and right turn is made from Tuscan to Valley. This area
is not signalized and there is pedestrian traffic on Valley, especially for the elementary
schools and commuters walking to the train station. This turn poses a hazard to both
pedestrians and cars turning on to Valley.
Crash Data: 11 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004


Roads Identified to be Problematic (# of complaints)

1. Ridgewood (14) ­ This road has been unanimously identified as a speeding area.
There is a good amount of pedestrian traffic and cars turning on to Ridgewood from the
intersecting streets make hazardous turns due to grade, visibility and speed of traffic.
Crash Data: 27 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

2. Boyden Ave (9) - Speeding was the greatest complaint on Boyden Ave along with
congestion on Springfield Ave intersection.
Crash Data: 168 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

3. Springfield (9) - Congestion throughout the street during rush hour and bottleneck at
Boyden Ave
Crash Data: 527 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

4. Maplewood Ave (7) ­ Bottleneck and pedestrian hazards identified
Crash Data: 85 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

5. Orchard Ave (5) - Speeding
Crash Data: 19 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

6. Prospect (5) ­ Speeding has been unanimously identified.
Crash Data: 78 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004
7. Valley St (5) ­ Congestion near Parker and Baker street during end of school has been
observed during rush hour. It has also been identified for being a speeding area
Crash Data: 266 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

8. Parker Ave (5) ­ Along with Valley Street, this area has been identified as a
congestion area, particularly near Columbia High School. Double parking is common
during school drop off and pick up hours and this enhances the congestion in the area.
Crash Data: 108 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

9. Baker St (4) ­ Speeding and visibility problems noted from the underpass, to
Memorial Library and Maplewood Middle School area to Valley Street. There is very
heavy pedestrian traffic on Baker throughout the day.
Crash Data: 50 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

10. Durand Rd (4) - Durand has been identified as a major thoroughfare for traffic
moving from Maplewood Ave to Ridgewood Rd and Wyoming Ave and vice versa.
Speeding has been the biggest complaint.
Crash Data: 8 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

11. Jacoby St (3) ­ Traffic trying to by pass Springfield and get on Boyden Ave
frequently use Jacoby St. Speeding has been unanimously observed, especially on a
curve behind Seth Boyden School where there is heavy pedestrian traffic and visibility is
limited.
Crash Data: 34 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004

12. Tuscan Road (3) ­ Traffic and pedestrian hazards. Increase signage and more law
enforcement.
Crash Data: 29 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004


Other Areas of Note

1. Sommer/Girard/Harvard/Osborne (6) ­ This collection of streets has been
identified to be a speeding area because it is frequently used as a traversing route from
Valley to Prospect/Springfield and vice versa.
Crash Data: 24 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004
6-Sommer, 2-Girard, 14-Harvard, 2-Osborne

2. Garfield Place, Union Ave, Hudson Ave and Coolidge Rd - This street has been
observed to be used frequently by drivers who by pass the Irvington Ave and Boyden
Ave intersection traffic light trying to get to Irvington Ave from Boyden Ave and vice
versa. Temporary speed humps have been installed to mitigate the problem but issue
should be resolved for traffic moving from Irvington Ave to Boyden Ave.
Crash Data: 21 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004
4-Garfield, 10-Union, 4-Hudson, 3-Coolidge
3. Kensington Terrace (collective complaint from neighborhood association) ­
Traffic from Parker Ave, Oakland Road and Edgewood Pl getting on to Kensington Terr
frequently speed along the road especially after school near Colombia High School and is
used as a bypass for Valley St. There has been a stop sign request to be placed on
Kensington on the intersection of Kensington Terr and Edgewood Pl by the neighborhood
association but this is not recommended by the MUTCD 2001. This issue must be
looked at more closely along with the issues near Columbia High School.
Crash Data: 8 Reported Crash Incidents From Jan 1, 2001-Dec 31, 2004
 Julia Steponanko

  From:         Bernard Boerchers [bboerchers@gpinet.com]
  Sent:         Tuesday, May 08, 2007 9:30 AM
  To:           Julia Steponanko
  Subject:      FW: Jefferson Maplewood & Sight Triangles
  Attachments: JeffersonMaplewoodReport2.pdf; JeffersonMaplewoodReport1.pdf; Sight Triangle Ordinance.doc




Bernard J. Boerchers, P.E.
Senior Project Manager / Assistant Vice President
Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205, Lebanon, NJ 08833
ph: (908) 236-9001 x239
fax: (908) 236-9669
email: bboerchers@gpinet.com
web: www.gpinet.com

~ Celebrating 40 years in 2006! ~
-----Original Message-----
From: Matthew Cho [mailto:matthewc@twp.maplewood.nj.us]
Sent: Monday, February 26, 2007 4:23 PM
To: Bernard Boerchers
Cc: Richard Calbi
Subject: Jefferson Maplewood & Sight Triangles

Bernie,
Here's the information you requested last week during our field visit.
   -     Sight Triangle Ordinance
   -     Accident Report for Police Car Crash at Maplewood & Jefferson in 2000

Matthew Cho
Project Engineer
Township of Maplewood
Engineering Department
574 Valley Street
Maplewood, New Jersey 07040
973.762.8120, ext 3501




7/23/2007
CODE OF THE TOWNSHIP OF MAPLEWOOD, NEW JERSEY, v28, LUL, v13
Updated 8-15-2005
PART II GENERAL LEGISLATION
CHAPTER 271, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE IV, Design and Performance Standards

§ 271-55. Sight triangles.

Sight triangles shall be required at each corner of an intersection of streets and at
intersections of streets and driveways serving commercial, industrial and multifamily
housing developments. Driveways shall be classified as a local street for purposes of
establishing distances. The area within sight triangles shall be either dedicated as part of
the street right-of-way or kept as part of the lot and identified as a sight triangle
easement. The standards set forth herein shall apply to all intersections in the Township,
regardless of whether an additional right-of-way is dedicated or an easement provided.
No grading, planting or structure shall be erected or maintained more than 24 inches
above the center-line grade of the intersecting street or driveway or lower than 10 feet
above their center lines, excluding street name signs and official traffic regulation signs.
Where any intersection involves earth banks or vegetation, including trees, the developer
shall trim or selectively thin trees and grade to provide the single triangle. The sight
triangle is that area bounded by the intersecting street lines and a straight line connecting
sight points located on each of the two intersecting street lines the following distances
from the point of intersection:

A.       Major streets at 100 feet; secondary streets at 60 feet; tertiary streets at 35 feet;
and local streets at 25 feet.
B.       Where the intersecting streets are both of a higher classification than local, two
overlapping sight triangles shall be required, formed by connecting the sight points noted
above with a sight point 25 feet on the intersecting street. The classification of existing
and proposed streets shall be those shown on the adopted Master Plan.
C.       Where streets or driveways intersect a state or county road, the sight triangle shall
conform to state or county requirements.
D.       A sight triangle easement shall be expressed on the plat as follows: "Sight triangle
easement subject to grading, planting and construction restrictions as provided in the
Maplewood Zoning and Development Regulations Ordinance."
E.       Portions of a lot set aside for the sight triangles may be calculated in determining
the lot area and minimum setbacks required by the zoning provisions.
 Julia Steponanko

  From:           Bernard Boerchers [bboerchers@gpinet.com]
  Sent:           Tuesday, May 08, 2007 9:32 AM
  To:             Julia Steponanko
  Subject:        FW: Jefferson Maplewood & Sight Triangles
  Attachments: Sight Triangle Map.pdf




Bernard J. Boerchers, P.E.
Senior Project Manager / Assistant Vice President
Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205, Lebanon, NJ 08833
ph: (908) 236-9001 x239
fax: (908) 236-9669
email: bboerchers@gpinet.com
web: www.gpinet.com

~ Celebrating 40 years in 2006! ~
-----Original Message-----
From: Matthew Cho [mailto:matthewc@twp.maplewood.nj.us]
Sent: Tuesday, February 27, 2007 10:59 AM
To: Bernard Boerchers
Cc: Richard Calbi
Subject: RE: Jefferson Maplewood & Sight Triangles

Bernie,
Here's the map that shows the road classification for Sight Triangles per our Zoning Ordinance. The map indicates both
roads to be secondary streets ­ thus the 60' sight triangle. I am not aware of any sight triangle easements for those
properties in the Maplewood/Jefferson intersection.

Matthew Cho
Project Engineer
Township of Maplewood
Engineering Department
574 Valley Street
Maplewood, New Jersey 07040
973.762.8120, ext 3501

From: Bernard Boerchers [mailto:bboerchers@gpinet.com]
Sent: Tuesday, February 27, 2007 9:02 AM
To: Matthew Cho
Cc: Richard Calbi
Subject: RE: Jefferson Maplewood & Sight Triangles

Hi Matt,

Can you provide the classification (i.e. major, secondary, tertiary or local) of the streets within our traffic calming study as
per the Master Plan, especially Maplewood Avenue and Jefferson Avenue? According to the ordinance this information is
necessary to determine the sight triangles. Also are you aware of any plans or plats indicating the sight triangle
easements for the properties adjacent to the intersection of Maplewood Avenue and Jefferson Avenue?

Thanks,
Bernie




7/23/2007
Bernard J. Boerchers, P.E.
Senior Project Manager / Assistant Vice President
Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205, Lebanon, NJ 08833
ph: (908) 236-9001 x239
fax: (908) 236-9669
email: bboerchers@gpinet.com
web: www.gpinet.com

~ Celebrating 40 years in 2006! ~
      -----Original Message-----
      From: Matthew Cho [mailto:matthewc@twp.maplewood.nj.us]
      Sent: Monday, February 26, 2007 4:23 PM
      To: Bernard Boerchers
      Cc: Richard Calbi
      Subject: Jefferson Maplewood & Sight Triangles

      Bernie,
      Here's the information you requested last week during our field visit.
         -     Sight Triangle Ordinance
         -     Accident Report for Police Car Crash at Maplewood & Jefferson in 2000

      Matthew Cho
      Project Engineer
      Township of Maplewood
      Engineering Department
      574 Valley Street
      Maplewood, New Jersey 07040
      973.762.8120, ext 3501




7/23/2007
 Julia Steponanko

  From:                 Mike Levan [mlevan@gpinet.com]
  Sent:                 Tuesday, May 15, 2007 2:14 PM
  To:                   Bernard Boerchers
  Cc:                   Julia Steponanko
  Subject:              FW: Maplewood Traffic Calming - sight triangles
  Attachments: Sight Distance_20070515132517.pdf

FYI


From: Robert Bratt [mailto:rbratt@kellkirk.com]
Sent: Tuesday, May 15, 2007 1:34 PM
To: Mike Levan
Subject: RE: Maplewood Traffic Calming - sight triangles


Mike - When you get this, please call me to discuss.

Robert E. Bratt, P.E., P.P.
Vice President / Assistant Director of Engineering


Keller & Kirkpatrick
zConsulting Engineers z Surv eyors
z Planners z Landscape Architec ts

301 Gibraltar Drive ­ Suite 2A
Morris Plains, NJ 07950

Tel: (973) 377-8500
Fax: (973) 887-0925
Direct: (973) 434-8339

Visit our website at www.kellkirk.com
Or visit our parent company, Greenman-Pedersen Inc. (GPI) at www.gpinet.com

          -----Original Message-----
          From: Mike Levan [mailto:mlevan@gpinet.com]
          Sent: Tuesday, May 15, 2007 11:44 AM
          To: rbratt@kellkirk.com
          Subject: Maplewood Traffic Calming - sight triangles

          Hi Bob,
          Based on our conversation this morning, could you review the attached .pdf file showing the sight triangles for
          Jefferson and Maplewood so that I can be sure of my understanding of the ordinance. Based on a plan that I
          have, both Jefferson and Maplewood are major streets while Walton and Woodland are both local streets.

          Thanks for your help.

          Mike Levan, E.I.T.
          Associate Transportation Engineer
          Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
          100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205, Lebanon, NJ 08833
          ph: (908) 236-9001 x245
          fax: (908) 236-9669
          email: mlevan@gpinet.com
          web: www.gpinet.com




7/23/2007
 APPENDIX B


Timing Directive
             APPENDIX C


Traffic Flow Diagrams / Manual Count Data
                      Parker Avenue and Valley Street
                    Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                  Manual Classified Turning Movement Counts
                        Count Date - October 18, 2006

                                2006 - Existing Conditions
     Legend: MORNING (7:30-8:30 AM)/MID-DAY (11:45-12:45 PM)/EVENING (5:00-6:00 PM)




                                                        536 / 392 / 564




                                                                                                                   497 / 422 / 667
                                            47
                                                           425 / 301 / 433
                                                                             84
                                            56 / 31 /


                                                                             55 / 60 /




                                                                                                                                                   87 / 69 / 97
                  244 / 158 / 277                                                                                                                 159 / 110 / 206   340 /   257 /   400
                                                                                                                                                   94 / 78 / 97
                                                                                                                                        Parker Avenue
                         37 /    21 / 57
206 / 132 / 341         131 /    93 / 255                                                                                                         250 / 203 / 413
                         38 /    18 / 29
                                                           557 / 397 / 559




                                                                                                                      373 / 332 / 513
                                                                                                         17 / 24


                                                                                                                                        50 / 74
                                                                                                         29 /


                                                                                                                                        64 /
                                                                                         Valley Street



                                                                                                                      466 / 399 / 621
             Jefferson Avenue and Valley Street
             Township of Maplewood, Essex County
           Manual Classified Turning Movement Counts
                 Count Date - October 18, 2006

                      2006 - Existing Conditions
Legend: MORNING (8:15-9:15 AM)/MID-DAY (12:45-1:45 PM)/EVENING (4:45-5:45 PM)




                                         496 / 394 / 595
                                         63
                                                           431 / 356 / 532




                                                                                                            386 / 349 / 545
                                         65 / 38 /




                      Jefferson Avenue
                   26 / 35 / 44
 79 /   85 / 111   53 / 50 / 67
                                                                                                            360 / 314 / 501
                                                                                             55 / 41 / 47
                                                                             Valley Street



                                                                                                            415 / 355 / 548
            Cedar Lane and Ridgewood Road
           Township of Maplewood, Essex County
         Manual Classified Turning Movement Counts
                Count Date - October 19, 2006

                        2006 - Existing Conditions
Legend: MORNING (7:45-8:45 AM)/MID-DAY (12:15-1:15 PM)/EVENING (4:45-5:45 PM)




                                             248 / 109 / 181




                                                                                               186 / 136 / 222
                                             99 / 159
                                      / 18


                                                               /4
                                      6


                                                               4
                                      59 /
                                             187 /
                                                               2 /




                                                                                                                       1 /    1 / 3
                91 /   19 / 31                                                                                         7/     3/ 5    12 / 5 / 11
                                                                                                                       4 /    1 / 3
                                                                                                                 Cedar Lane
                       29 /  6 / 11
 50 / 27 / 36           4 / 12 / 13                                                                                    9 / 24 / 23
                       17 / 9 / 12
                                             208 / 109 / 174




                                                                                               156 / 129 / 208
                                                                                      10 / 8


                                                                                                                 8/6
                                                                                      25 /


                                                                                                                 3/
                                                                     Ridgewood Road



                                                                                               184 / 147 / 222
                    Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace
                      Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                    Manual Classified Turning Movement Counts
                           Count Date - October 18, 2006

                               2006 - Existing Conditions
         Legend: MORNING (7:30-8:30 AM)/MID-DAY (12:15-1:15 PM)/EVENING (5:00-6:00PM)




                      346 /   253 /   424                                                                   321 / 245 / 418   394 / 265 / 450
                                                                                                             73 / 20 / 32
                                                                                                        Parker Avenue

253 /   199 / 448     212 /   191 /   439                                                                  286 / 217 / 469
                       41 /     8 /    9
                                                            Kensington Terrace
                                            114 / 28 / 41




                                                                                         74 / 26 / 30
                                                                                 8 / 6
                                                                                 25 /
                                                                                         99 / 34 / 36
      Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place
            Township of Maplewood, Essex County
          Manual Classified Turning Movement Counts
                Count Date - October 18, 2006

                      2006 - Existing Conditions
Legend: MORNING (7:30-8:30 AM)/MID-DAY (12:15-1:15 PM)/EVENING (3:00-4:00 PM)




                                            127 / 19 / 58




                                                                                              117 / 22 / 27
                                     6
                                            97 / 11 / 42
                                                            / 10
                                     /
                                     3


                                                            5
                                     10 /


                                                            20 /




                                                                                                                      6 /      2 /    2
               48 / 11 /   24                                                                                        31 /      1 /   14   40 / 4 / 18
                                                                                                                      3 /      1 /    2
                                                                                                              Edgewood Place
                    21 /    7 / 9
35 / 21 / 31        11 / / 11 / 19                                                                                   36   /   17 /   36
                     3 / 3 / 3
                                            103 / 15 / 47




                                                                                              90 / 13 / 16
                                                                                        4/4


                                                                                                               1/7
                                                                   Kensington Terrace

                                                                                        7/


                                                                                                               5/
                                                                                              102 / 18 / 27
                                                           GREENMAN-PEDERSEN, INC.
                                                                        100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205
                                                                              Lebanon, NJ 08833
Default Comments                                                      Engineering and Construction Services                                            File Name            : Parker & Valley 2
Parker & Valley                                                                                                                                        Site Code            : 00000000
9/12/06 7am - 6pm                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                          Page No              :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Pass Vehs - Med Trucks - Heavy Trucks
                             Valley St                            Parker Ave                                    Valley St                                      Parker Ave
                            Southbound                            Westbound                                   Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru   Right      Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru      Right     Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    06:00 AM       3     24     1      2          30     5       5       2       2          14      2      23       1          0          26      0       1          0         1           2           72
    06:15 AM       2     31     2      0          35     8       8       6       0          22      1      27       5          0          33      1       2          0         1           4           94
    06:30 AM       1     47     0      1          49    17      25       5       0          47      2      45       2          1          50      0       2          0         1           3          149
    06:45 AM       5     60     8      1          74    24      25      12       0          61      1      58       4          1          64      1       7          1         1          10          209
         Total    11    162    11      4         188    54      63      25       2         144      6     153      12          2         173      2      12          1         4          19          524

    07:00 AM       5     55     4     11          75    19      50      14       2          85      7      63       7          0          77     5       11          6         1          23         260
    07:15 AM       4     81     8     12         105    25      51      10       3          89      7      71       7          4          89     3       17          6         2          28         311
    07:30 AM      14     97    15     53         179    30      41      15       3          89      8      79      15          0         102     5       29          4         2          40         410
    07:45 AM      15    123    17    177         332    18      38      30      15         101     10     101      12         10         133    12       31         19        17          79         645
         Total    38    356    44    253         691    92     180      69      23         364     32     314      41         14         401    25       88         35        22         170        1626

    08:00 AM      15    109    13     50         187    22      34      22       8          86      8     102      19          2         131    13       38          9         8          68         472
    08:15 AM      11     96    11      2         120    24      46      20       1          91      3      91      18          0         112     7       33          6         2          48         371
    08:30 AM      11    115    10      8         144    29      51      16       1          97      4      82       6          0          92     9       33          8         4          54         387
    08:45 AM       7     82     3     14         106    23      44      22       2          91      7     106      16          3         132     5       39         16         3          63         392
         Total    44    402    37     74         557    98     175      80      12         365     22     381      59          5         467    34      143         39        17         233        1622

    09:00 AM      13     77    17      7         114    23      41      15       0          79      7      88      14          0         109     5       26         11         2          44         346
    09:15 AM      12     81     7      0         100    20      32      17       0          69      7      89       5          1         102    10       23          7         1          41         312

        Total     25    158    24      7         214    43      73      32       0         148     14     177      19          1         211    15       49         18         3          85         658



    11:00 AM       9     54    13      1          77    24      23      17       0          64      6      90       8          0         104     5       22          3         0          30         275
    11:15 AM      11     68     5      0          84    16      19      18       1          54      2      97      13          1         113     4       10          6         1          21         272
    11:30 AM      10     54     5      3          72    11      27      15       0          53      4      34       9          0          47     9       22          8         1          40         212
    11:45 AM      12     83     4     22         121    19      30      20       9          78      1      78      13         19         111    10       24          3         0          37         347
         Total    42    259    27     26         354    70      99      70      10         249     13     299      43         20         375    28       78         20         2         128        1106

    12:00 PM      21     76     4      2         103    18      27      14       1          60      6      80       9         24         119     2       19          4        10          35         317
    12:15 PM      12     64    14      8          98    22      29      15       2          68      6      80      18         17         121     4       29          6        31          70         357
    12:30 PM      15     78     9     57         159    19      24      20       0          63      4      94      10         38         146     5       21          5        21          52         420
    12:45 PM       9     66     7      3          85    13      28      15       2          58      0      94      13          9         116     5       27          4         4          40         299
         Total    57    284    34     70         445    72     108      64       5         249     16     348      50         88         502    16       96         19        66         197        1393

    01:00 PM      12     90     4     19         125    30      14      30       2          76      4      69      10         11          94     8       22          2         8          40         335
    01:15 PM      17     52    10     29         108    20      21      18       8          67      7      81       8         14         110     8       21          6        10          45         330
    01:30 PM      16    100     9      4         129    19      19      21       3          62      6      68       5          0          79     8       14          7         3          32         302
    01:45 PM      12     84    10      0         106    11      29      14       1          55      2      72      14          0          88     6       24          2         0          32         281
         Total    57    326    33     52         468    80      83      83      14         260     19     290      37         25         371    30       81         17        21         149        1248
                                                                  GREENMAN-PEDERSEN, INC.
                                                                                100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205
                                                                                      Lebanon, NJ 08833
Default Comments                                                              Engineering and Construction Services                                             File Name            : Parker & Valley 2
Parker & Valley                                                                                                                                                 Site Code            : 00000000
9/12/06 7am - 6pm                                                                                                                                               Start Date           : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                                   Page No              :2
                                                                       Groups Printed- Pass Vehs - Med Trucks - Heavy Trucks
                               Valley St                                  Parker Ave                                    Valley St                                       Parker Ave
                              Southbound                                  Westbound                                   Northbound                                        Eastbound
Start Time        Left    Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Left    Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total    Left    Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total    Left    Thru      Right     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total


     03:00 PM       18      96     13     65           192      22      22       17       8          69       3      84      23      22          132      10      38          2         7           57         450
     03:15 PM       11      85     15    114           225      10      27       25      10          72       4      50      11      63          128      19      36         11        11           77         502
     03:30 PM       26     110     16     24           176      23      38       27       7          95       3     104      16      12          135      17      49          5         3           74         480
     03:45 PM       21      86      9     20           136      25      40       22       2          89       3     117      14      34          168       9      62          9         6           86         479
          Total     76     377     53    223           729      80     127       91      27         325      13     355      64     131          563      55     185         27        27          294        1911

     04:00 PM       23      99     11      16          149      24      36      26       12          98       5     122      20       25         172      14      42          8         3           67         486
     04:15 PM        8     113      6      12          139      27      37      34        3         101       8     101      11       17         137      10      40          9         8           67         444
     04:30 PM       29     107     12       8          156      25      58      27        6         116       4     110      15        1         130      13      32          5         5           55         457
     04:45 PM       19     131     20      11          181       8      46      26        0          80       2     123      14        5         144      10      73          4         1           88         493
          Total     79     450     49      47          625      84     177     113       21         395      19     456      60       48         583      47     187         26        17          277        1880

     05:00 PM       24     114      9       4          151      28      42       16       1          87      10     125       7        3         145      10      55          6         3           74         457
     05:15 PM       23     116     14       3          156      28      50       26       1         105       2     133      20        1         156      14      70          8        22          114         531
     05:30 PM       12     112      8       1          133      29      48       30       3         110       7     123      20        9         159      17      67          7         4           95         497
     05:45 PM       25      91     16       7          139      12      66       25       1         104       5     132      27        2         166      16      63          8         0           87         496
          Total     84     433     47      15          579      97     206       97       6         406      24     513      74       15         626      57     255         29        29          370        1981

   Grand Total     513    3207    359     771        4850      770    1291      724    120        2905      178    3286     459     349        4272      309    1174        231       208        1922        13949
     Apprch %     10.6     66.1    7.4   15.9                 26.5     44.4    24.9     4.1                  4.2    76.9   10.7      8.2                16.1     61.1         12     10.8
       Total %      3.7      23    2.6     5.5        34.8      5.5     9.3      5.2    0.9        20.8      1.3    23.6     3.3     2.5        30.6      2.2     8.4        1.7       1.5        13.8
    Pass Vehs      511    3122    359     771        4763      765    1281      719    120        2885      177    3182     455     349        4163      309    1172        231       208        1920        13731
  % Pass Vehs     99.6     97.3   100     100         98.2    99.4     99.2    99.3    100         99.3    99.4     96.8   99.1     100         97.4     100     99.8       100       100         99.9         98.4
   Med Trucks         2      85      0       0          87        4       2        3      0           9        1      64       4       0          69        0       2          0         0           2          167
 % Med Trucks       0.4     2.7      0       0         1.8      0.5     0.2      0.4      0         0.3      0.6     1.9     0.9       0         1.6        0     0.2          0         0         0.1           1.2
 Heavy Trucks         0       0      0       0           0        1       8        2      0          11        0      40       0       0          40        0       0          0         0           0            51
% Heavy Trucks
                                                                      GREENMAN-PEDERSEN, INC.
                                                                                     100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205
                                                                                           Lebanon, NJ 08833
Default Comments                                                                   Engineering and Construction Services                                                    File Name            : Parker & Valley 2
Parker & Valley                                                                                                                                                             Site Code            : 00000000
9/12/06 7am - 6pm                                                                                                                                                           Start Date           : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                                               Page No              :3


                                 Valley St                                       Parker Ave                                        Valley St                                        Parker Ave
                                Southbound                                       Westbound                                        Northbound                                        Eastbound
     Start Time      Left   Thru Right Peds          App. Total    Left   Thru      Right     Peds    App. Total    Left   Thru      Right     Peds    App. Total    Left    Thru      Right     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 09:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
      07:30 AM           14        97        15      53    179     30
      07:45 AM           15      123         17    177     332      18     38         30        15          101      10    101         12        10          133     12       31         19        17           79          645
      08:00 AM         15     109        13     50        187       22     34         22          8         86         8   102         19          2        131      13       38          9         8          68          472
      08:15 AM         11      96        11      2        120       24     46         20          1         91         3     91        18          0        112        7      33          6         2          48          371
  Total Volume         55     425        56    282        818       94     159        87         27        367        29    373        64         12        478       37     131         38        29         235         1898
  % App. Total        6.7      52       6.8   34.5                25.6    43.3      23.7        7.4                  6.1     78      13.4        2.5                15.7    55.7       16.2      12.3
           PHF      .917     .864     .824    .398        .616    .783    .864      .725      .450         .908    .725    .914      .842      .300         .898    .712    .862       .500      .426         .744        .736

Peak Hour Analysis From 10:00 AM to 01:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:45 AM
      11:45 AM         12        83        4       22   121        19      30         20         9           78       1     78         13        19         111      10       24          3         0           37         347
      12:00 PM         21        76        4        2   103        18       27        14          1         60        6     80          9        24         119        2      19          4        10           35         317
      12:15 PM         12        64       14        8    98        22       29        15          2         68         6    80         18        17         121        4      29          6        31           70         357
      12:30 PM         15        78        9       57   159         19      24        20          0         63         4    94         10        38          146       5      21           5       21          52           420
  Total Volume         60       301       31       89   481         78     110        69         12        269        17    332        50        98         497       21      93          18       62         194         1441
  % App. Total       12.5      62.6      6.4     18.5               29    40.9      25.7        4.5                  3.4   66.8      10.1      19.7                 10.8    47.9         9.3       32
           PHF       .714      .907    .554      .390  .756       .886    .917      .863      .333         .862    .708    .883      .694      .645         .851    .525    .802       .750      .500         .693        .858

Peak Hour Analysis From 02:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
      05:00 PM         24       114        9         4  151        28      42         16         1          87       10    125          7         3         145      10       55          6         3           74         457
      05:15 PM         23       116       14         3   156       28      50         26         1         105         2   133         20         1         156      14       70          8        22          114          531
      05:30 PM         12       112        8         1  133        29      48         30         3          110        7    123        20         9         159      17       67           7         4         95          497
      05:45 PM         25        91       16         7  139         12     66         25          1        104         5    132        27          2         166      16      63           8         0         87          496
  Total Volume         84       433       47        15  579         97     206        97          6        406        24    513        74         15        626       57     255          29        29        370         1981
  % App. Total       14.5      74.8      8.1       2.6            23.9    50.7      23.9        1.5                  3.8   81.9      11.8        2.4                15.4    68.9         7.8       7.8
           PHF       .840      .933    .734      .536  .928       .836    .780      .808      .500         .923    .600    .964      .685      .417         .943    .838    .911       .906      .330         .811        .933
                                                                  Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
                                                                    100 Corporate Dr, Suite 205
                                                                        Lebanon, NJ 08833
                                                       (908) 236-9001 . Fax (908) 236-9669 . www.gpinet.com
Default Comments                                                       Engineering and Construction Services                                     File Name      : Valley & Jefferson
Valley Street & Jefferson Avenue                                                                                                                 Site Code      : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                               Start Date     : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                    Page No        :1


                                                                 Groups Printed- Pass Vehs - Med Trucks - Heavy Trucks
                           Valley St.                                                                         Valley St.                              Jefferson St.
                          Southbound                                 Westbound                               Northbound                                Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru Right Peds     App. Total     Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total      Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
   06:00 AM      0      30      1     0         31         0       0      0       0         0      0      29       0     0         29       2        0       1      0           3          63
   06:15 AM      0      28      6     0         34         0       0      0       0         0      0      22       0     0         22       1        0       3      0           4          60
   06:30 AM      0      28      7     0         35         0       0      0       0         0      1      19       0     0         20       1        0       3      0           4          59
   06:45 AM      0      26     30     0         56         0       0      0       0         0      3      37       0     0         40       1        0       2      0           3          99
       Total     0     112     44     0        156         0       0      0       0         0      4    107        0     0        111       5        0       9      0          14         281

   07:00 AM      0     51     10     0          61         0       0       0     0         0      7     49       0      0          56       2        0      6      0            8         125
   07:15 AM      0     58     11     0          69         0       0       0     0         0     11     50       0      0          61       2        0      3      0            5         135
   07:30 AM      0    110     18     0         128         0       0       0     0         0     25     93       0      0         118       5        0      5      0           10         256
   07:45 AM      0     87     23     0         110         0       0       0     0         0     17     73       0      0          90       4        0      7      0           11         211
       Total     0    306     62     0         368         0       0       0     0         0     60    265       0      0         325      13        0     21      0           34         727

   08:00 AM      0    107     22     0         129         0       0       0     0         0     18     81       0      0          99       7        0     13      0           20         248
   08:15 AM      0    108     16     0         124         0       0       0     0         0     18     86       0      0         104       9        0     15      0           24         252
   08:30 AM      0    124     18     0         142         0       0       0     0         0     17     78       0      0          95       5        0     13      0           18         255
   08:45 AM      0     91     19     0         110         0       0       0     0         0      9     96       0      0         105       6        0     11      0           17         232
       Total     0    430     75     0         505         0       0       0     0         0     62    341       0      0         403      27        0     52      0           79         987

   09:00 AM      0    108     12     0         120         0       0       0     0         0     11    100       0      0         111       6        0     14      0           20         251
   09:15 AM      0     97      8     0         105         0       0       0     0         0      2     97       0      0          99       5        0     10      0           15         219

       Total     0    205     20     0         225         0       0       0     0         0     13    197       0      0         210      11        0     24      0           35         470



   11:00 AM      0     70      6     0          76         0       0       0     0         0     11     82       0      0          93       6        0     10      0           16         185
   11:15 AM      0     84      6     0          90         0       0       0     0         0      4     77       0      0          81      11        0      2      0           13         184
   11:30 AM      0     70      8     0          78         0       0       0     0         0     21     64       0      0          85       5        0     12      0           17         180
   11:45 AM      0     84      7     0          91         0       0       0     0         0      6     75       0      0          81       5        0     15      0           20         192
       Total     0    308     27     0         335         0       0       0     0         0     42    298       0      0         340      27        0     39      0           66         741

   12:00 PM      0     67     15     0          82         0       0       0     0         0      6     51       0      0          57      10        0     10      0           20         159
   12:15 PM      0     84     12     0          96         0       0       0     0         0      5     93       0      0          98      13        0     16      0           29         223
   12:30 PM      0     80     13     0          93         0       0       0     0         0     16     64       0      0          80       5        0      9      0           14         187
   12:45 PM      0     78      6     0          84         0       0       0     0         0     12     82       0      0          94      11        0     16      0           27         205
       Total     0    309     46     0         355         0       0       0     0         0     39    290       0      0         329      39        0     51      0           90         774
                                                                    Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
                                                                      100 Corporate Dr, Suite 205
                                                                          Lebanon, NJ 08833
                                                         (908) 236-9001 . Fax (908) 236-9669 . www.gpinet.com
Default Comments                                                         Engineering and Construction Services                                     File Name      : Valley & Jefferson
Valley Street & Jefferson Avenue                                                                                                                   Site Code      : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                                 Start Date     : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                      Page No        :2
                                                                   Groups Printed- Pass Vehs - Med Trucks - Heavy Trucks
                             Valley St.                                                                         Valley St.                              Jefferson St.
                            Southbound                                 Westbound                               Northbound                                Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds     App. Total     Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total      Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
    01:00 PM       0     101      8     0        109         0       0      0       0         0     11      75       0     0         86       7        0       7      0          14         209
    01:15 PM       0      72     13     0         85         0       0      0       0         0     12      80       0     0         92      10        0       7      0          17         194
    01:30 PM       0     105     11     0        116         0       0      0       0         0      6      77       0     0         83       7        0      20      0          27         226
    01:45 PM       0      82      9     0         91         0       0      0       0         0     11      69       0     0         80       6        0      13      0          19         190
        Total      0     360     41     0        401         0       0      0       0         0     40    301        0     0        341      30        0      47      0          77         819



    03:00 PM       0    105     13     0         118         0       0       0     0         0      6     85       0      0          91      13        0     14      0          27          236
    03:15 PM       0     96     12     0         108         0       0       0     0         0     17     97       0      0         114      11        0     25      0          36          258
    03:30 PM       0    127      5     0         132         0       0       0     0         0     18     82       0      0         100      13        0     28      0          41          273
    03:45 PM       0    116     12     0         128         0       0       0     0         0     13    105       0      0         118      10        0     17      0          27          273
        Total      0    444     42     0         486         0       0       0     0         0     54    369       0      0         423      47        0     84      0         131         1040

    04:00 PM       0    110     15     0         125         0       0       0     0         0     13    102       0      0         115       9        0     18      0          27          267
    04:15 PM       0    105     10     0         115         0       0       0     0         0      8     99       0      0         107      12        0     15      0          27          249
    04:30 PM       0    135     15     0         150         0       0       0     0         0     11    101       0      0         112      11        0     23      0          34          296
    04:45 PM       0    127     24     0         151         0       0       0     0         0     18    120       0      0         138      12        0     13      0          25          314
        Total      0    477     64     0         541         0       0       0     0         0     50    422       0      0         472      44        0     69      0         113         1126

    05:00 PM       0    138      8     0         146         0       0       0     0         0     14    114       0      0         128       8        0     15      0          23          297
    05:15 PM       0    139     14     0         153         0       0       0     0         0      7    127       0      0         134      14        0     22      0          36          323
    05:30 PM       0    128     17     0         145         0       0       0     0         0      8    140       0      0         148      10        0     17      0          27          320
    05:45 PM       0    117     16     0         133         0       0       0     0         0      8    118       0      0         126      23        0     23      0          46          305
        Total      0    522     55     0         577         0       0       0     0         0     37    499       0      0         536      55        0     77      0         132         1245

  Grand Total      0    3473   476     0       3949          0       0       0     0         0   401    3089       0      0       3490      298        0   473       0         771         8210
    Apprch %       0    87.9   12.1    0                     0       0       0     0             11.5   88.5       0      0                 38.7       0   61.3      0
     Total %       0    42.3    5.8    0       48.1          0       0       0     0         0    4.9   37.6       0      0        42.5      3.6       0    5.8      0         9.4
   Pass Vehs       0    3322   470     0       3792          0       0       0     0         0   383    2987       0      0       3370      290        0   463       0        753          7915
 % Pass Vehs       0    95.7   98.7    0         96          0       0       0     0         0   95.5   96.7       0      0        96.6     97.3       0   97.9      0        97.7         48.2
  Med Trucks       0     116      5    0        121          0       0       0     0         0    14      82       0      0         96         8       0      9      0         17           234
 % Med Trucks      0     3.3    1.1    0        3.1          0       0       0     0         0    3.5    2.7       0      0         2.8      2.7       0    1.9      0         2.2          1.4
Heavy Trucks       0      35      1    0         36          0       0       0     0         0      4     20       0      0         24         0       0      1      0           1           61
% Heavy Trucks     0       1    0.2    0        0.9          0       0       0     0         0      1    0.6       0      0         0.7        0       0    0.2      0         0.1          0.4
                                                                   Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
                                                                   100 Corporate Dr, Suite 205
                                                                       Lebanon, NJ 08833
                                                      (908) 236-9001 . Fax (908) 236-9669 . www.gpinet.com
Default Comments                                                        Engineering and Construction Services                                        File Name      : Valley & Jefferson
Valley Street & Jefferson Avenue                                                                                                                     Site Code      : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                        Page No        :3


                                 Valley St.                                                                      Valley St.                               Jefferson St.
                                Southbound                           Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
    Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total        Left   Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 09:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:15 AM
     08:15 AM         0     108      16        0     124    0       0        0      0           0      18     86      0      0        104        9       0     15      0         24          252
     08:30 AM         0     124      18        0     142    0       0        0      0           0      17     78      0      0         95        5       0     13      0         18          255
     08:45 AM         0      91      19        0     110    0       0        0      0           0       9     96      0      0        105        6       0     11      0         17          232
     09:00 AM         0     108      12        0     120    0       0        0      0           0      11    100      0      0        111        6       0     14      0         20          251
 Total Volume         0     431      65        0     496    0       0        0      0           0      55    360      0      0        415       26       0     53      0         79          990
  % App. Total        0    86.9    13.1        0            0       0        0      0                13.3   86.7      0      0                32.9       0   67.1      0
          PHF     .000     .869    .855     .000    .873 .000    .000     .000   .000       .000     .764   .900   .000   .000       .935     .722    .000   .883   .000       .823         .971

Peak Hour Analysis From 10:00 AM to 01:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:45 PM
     12:45 PM         0      78       6       0       84    0       0        0      0           0      12     82      0      0         94       11       0     16      0         27          205
     01:00 PM         0     101       8       0      109    0       0        0      0           0      11     75      0      0         86        7       0      7      0         14          209
     01:15 PM         0      72      13       0       85    0       0        0      0           0      12     80      0      0         92       10       0      7      0         17          194
     01:30 PM         0     105      11       0      116    0       0        0      0           0       6     77      0      0         83        7       0     20      0         27          226
 Total Volume         0     356      38       0      394    0       0        0      0           0      41    314      0      0        355       35       0     50      0         85          834
  % App. Total        0    90.4     9.6       0             0       0        0      0                11.5   88.5      0      0                41.2       0   58.8      0
          PHF     .000     .848    .731    .000     .849 .000    .000     .000   .000       .000     .854   .957   .000   .000       .944     .795    .000   .625   .000       .787         .923

Peak Hour Analysis From 02:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
     04:45 PM         0     127      24       0      151    0       0        0      0           0      18    120      0      0        138       12       0     13      0         25          314
     05:00 PM         0     138       8       0      146    0       0        0      0           0      14    114      0      0        128        8       0     15      0         23          297
     05:15 PM         0     139      14       0      153    0       0        0      0           0       7    127      0      0        134       14       0     22      0         36          323
     05:30 PM         0     128      17       0      145    0       0        0      0           0       8    140      0      0        148       10       0     17      0         27          320
 Total Volume         0     532      63       0      595    0       0        0      0           0      47    501      0      0        548       44       0     67      0        111         1254
  % App. Total        0    89.4    10.6       0             0       0        0      0                 8.6   91.4      0      0                39.6       0   60.4      0
          PHF     .000     .957    .656    .000     .972 .000    .000     .000   .000       .000     .653   .895   .000   .000       .926     .786    .000   .761   .000       .771         .971
                                                                      Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
                                                                       100 Corporate Dr, Suite 205
                                                                           Lebanon, NJ 08833
                                                          (908) 236-9001 . Fax (908) 236-9669 . www.gpinet.com
Maplewood Traffic Calming                                                 Engineering and Construction Services                                   File Name      : Parker & Kensington
Parker Avenue & Kensington Terrace                                                                                                                Site Code      : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                                Start Date     : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                     Page No        :1


                                                                    Groups Printed- Pass Vehs - Med Trucks - Heavy Trucks
                          Kensington Ter                                Parker Ave                               Kensington Ter                              Parker Ave
                            Southbound                                  Westbound                                   Northbound                               Eastbound
Start Time      Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total     Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total          Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
   06:00 AM       0       0       0      0           0        0      13        0       1         14      0        0       0     2            2     0       6        0   0           6          22
   06:15 AM       0       0       0      0           0        2      31        0       0         33      0        0       2     0            2     0       8        0   0           8          43
   06:30 AM       0       0       0      0           0        1      44        0       0         45      0        0       0     1            1     0       6        0   0           6          52
   06:45 AM       0       0       0      0           0        1      66        0       1         68      0        0       3     1            4     0      20        0   1          21          93
        Total     0       0       0      0           0        4     154        0       2        160      0        0       5     4            9     0      40        0   1          41         210

   07:00 AM       0       0      0      0            0        6     78        0       1       85       1       0       2       2           5       0     20      0      0         20          110
   07:15 AM       0       0      0      2            2        5     85        0       2       92       0       0       5       0           5       0     33      0      1         34          133
   07:30 AM       0       0      0      0            0       18     94        0       5      117       5       0      13      11          29       0     50      1      4         55          201
   07:45 AM       0       0      0      1            1       25     58        0       1       84      15       0      32      50          97       0     43     23     12         78          260
        Total     0       0      0      3            3       54    315        0       9      378      21       0      52      63         136       0    146     24     17        187          704

   08:00 AM       0       0      0      4            4       20     78        0       2      100        4      0      18       9           31      0     61     14      3         78          213
   08:15 AM       0       0      0      1            1       10     91        1       1      103        1      0      11       1           13      0     58      3      3         64          181
   08:30 AM       0       0      0      0            0       19    100        0       2      121        2      0       7       4           13      0     51      1      2         54          188
   08:45 AM       0       0      0      1            1       18     76        0       1       95        2      0       5       3           10      0     63      3      4         70          176
        Total     0       0      0      6            6       67    345        1       6      419        9      0      41      17           67      0    233     21     12        266          758

   09:00 AM       0       0      0      2            2        3      75       0       1       79        1      0       5       0             6     0     58      5      1          64         151
   09:15 AM       0       0      0      0            0        3      69       1       1       74        2      0       2       1             5     0     41      0      0          41         120

       Total      0       0      0      2            2        6    144        1       2      153        3      0       7       1           11      0     99      5      1        105          271



   11:00 AM       0       0      0      4            4        2     57        0       2       61        1      0       1       0            2      0     43      0      0         43          110
   11:15 AM       0       0      0      0            0        4     50        0       0       54        0      0       5       0            5      0     37      3      0         40           99
   11:30 AM       0       0      0      0            0        0     59        0       0       59        2      0       5       0            7      0     32      3      4         39          105
   11:45 AM       0       0      0      9            9        2     67        0       2       71        1      0       7       6           14      0     50      3      1         54          148
        Total     0       0      0     13           13        8    233        0       4      245        4      0      18       6           28      0    162      9      5        176          462

   12:00 PM       0       0      0      0            0        4     52        0       0       56        0      0       1       0            1      0     48      0      0         48          105
   12:15 PM       0       0      0      8            8        5     67        0       0       72        2      0       3       0            5      0     55      2      9         66          151
   12:30 PM       0       0      0      8            8        6     55        0       0       61        1      0      10       2           13      0     47      3      8         58          140
   12:45 PM       0       0      0      4            4        6     56        0       5       67        4      0       6       2           12      0     46      2      1         49          132
        Total     0       0      0     20           20       21    230        0       5      256        7      0      20       4           31      0    196      7     18        221          528
                                                                         Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
                                                                         100 Corporate Dr, Suite 205
                                                                             Lebanon, NJ 08833
                                                            (908) 236-9001 . Fax (908) 236-9669 . www.gpinet.com
Maplewood Traffic Calming                                                     Engineering and Construction Services                                  File Name        : Parker & Kensington
Parker Avenue & Kensington Terrace                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                        Page No          :2
                                                                       Groups Printed- Pass Vehs - Med Trucks - Heavy Trucks
                           Kensington Ter                                  Parker Ave                               Kensington Ter                              Parker Ave
                             Southbound                                    Westbound                                   Northbound                               Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds        App. Total     Left    Thru Right Peds App. Total          Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
    01:00 PM       0       0       0      0            0        3       67        0       1         71      1        0       7     0           8      0      43        1    4           48          127
    01:15 PM       0       0       0      1            1        1       55        0       1         57      1        0       5     6          12      0      46        1    7           54          124
    01:30 PM       0       0       0      1            1        1       57        0       0         58      1        0       4     0           5      0      35        4    0           39          103
    01:45 PM       0       0       0      2            2        1       56        0       1         58      0        0       7     1           8      0      54        6    0           60          128
         Total     0       0       0      4            4        6      235        0       3        244      3        0      23     7          33      0     178      12    11          201          482



    03:00 PM       1       0      0      13           14        11      62        0      8       81       3       0      14      14           31      4      64      10     17          95          221
    03:15 PM       0       0      0       3            3         8      59        0      1       68       5       0      24       9           38      0      59      14     11          84          193
    03:30 PM       0       0      0       7            7         5      75        0      0       80       2       0       5       5           12      1      93       5     10         109          208
    03:45 PM       0       0      0       0            0         0      81        0      2       83       0       0       8       1            9      0     109       3      3         115          207
         Total     1       0      0      23           24        24     277        0     11      312      10       0      51      29           90      5     325      32     41         403          829

    04:00 PM       0       0      0       0            0        10      96        0      0      106        3      0       8       0           11      3      74       4      5          86          203
    04:15 PM       0       0      0       3            3         5      94        0      0       99        1      0       6       0            7      0      76       2      1          79          188
    04:30 PM       0       0      0       3            3         9      96        0      1      106        1      0      15       0           16      0      81       0      1          82          207
    04:45 PM       0       0      0       0            0         3      88        0      0       91        1      0       7       0            8      0     104       2      0         106          205
         Total     0       0      0       6            6        27     374        0      1      402        6      0      36       0           42      3     335       8      7         353          803

    05:00 PM       0       0      0       0            0         8      95        0      0      103        3      0       8       0           11      0     100       3      0         103          217
    05:15 PM       0       0      0       1            1         3      96        0      0       99        1      0       4       1            6      0     116       1      0         117          223
    05:30 PM       0       0      0       0            0         9     106        0      0      115        1      0       8       0            9      0     104       2      1         107          231
    05:45 PM       0       0      0       0            0        12     121        0      0      133        1      0      10       0           11      0     119       3      0         122          266
         Total     0       0      0       1            1        32     418        0      0      450        6      0      30       1           37      0     439       9      1         449          937

  Grand Total       1      0      0       78          79       249    2725         2     43    3019       69      0     283     132         484        8   2153     127    114        2402         5984
    Apprch %      1.3      0      0    98.7                     8.2    90.3      0.1    1.4             14.3      0    58.5    27.3                  0.3    89.6     5.3    4.7
      Total %       0      0      0      1.3         1.3        4.2    45.5        0    0.7     50.5     1.2      0      4.7     2.2          8.1    0.1      36     2.1    1.9        40.1
   Pass Vehs        1      0      0       78          79       248    2679         2     43    2972       67      0     275     132          474       8   2123     125    114        2370         5895
 % Pass Vehs     100       0      0     100         100       99.6     98.3     100    100      98.4    97.1      0    97.2     100         97.9    100     98.6   98.4    100         98.7         49.3
  Med Trucks        0      0      0        0           0          0      30        0      0       30       2      0        5       0            7      0      14       2      0          16           53
 % Med Trucks       0      0      0        0           0          0     1.1        0      0        1     2.9      0      1.8       0          1.4      0     0.7     1.6      0         0.7          0.4
Heavy Trucks        0      0      0        0           0          1      16        0      0       17       0      0        3       0            3      0      16       0      0          16           36
% Heavy Trucks      0      0      0        0           0        0.4     0.6        0      0      0.6       0      0      1.1       0          0.6      0     0.7       0      0         0.7          0.3
                                                                         Greenman-Pedersen, Inc.
                                                                          100 Corporate Dr, Suite 205
                                                                              Lebanon, NJ 08833
                                                             (908) 236-9001 . Fax (908) 236-9669 . www.gpinet.com
Maplewood Traffic Calming                                                     Engineering and Construction Services                                      File Name      : Parker & Kensington
Parker Avenue & Kensington Terrace                                                                                                                       Site Code      : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                                       Start Date     : 10/18/2006
Mike F. - Sunny, clear, 70-75                                                                                                                            Page No        :3


                                Kensington Ter                             Parker Ave                                  Kensington Ter                             Parker Ave
                                   Southbound                              Westbound                                    Northbound                                Eastbound
     Start Time      Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Left    Thru Right Peds          App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 09:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
      07:30 AM          0        0       0        0     0        18      94         0       5        117        5      0     13     11          29        0     50      1       4          55          201
      07:45 AM          0        0       0        1     1        25      58         0       1         84       15      0     32     50          97        0     43     23      12          78          260
      08:00 AM          0        0       0        4     4        20      78         0       2        100        4      0     18      9          31        0     61     14       3          78          213
      08:15 AM          0        0       0        1     1        10      91         1       1        103        1      0     11      1          13        0     58      3       3          64          181
  Total Volume          0        0       0        6     6        73     321         1       9        404       25      0     74     71         170        0    212     41      22         275          855
  % App. Total          0        0       0      100            18.1    79.5       0.2     2.2                14.7      0   43.5   41.8                    0   77.1   14.9       8
            PHF     .000     .000     .000     .375  .375      .730    .854     .250    .450        .863     .417   .000   .578   .355         .438    .000   .869   .446    .458         .881         .822

Peak Hour Analysis From 10:00 AM to 01:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:15 PM
     12:15 PM           0        0       0        8     8          5     67        0        0         72        2      0      3      0            5       0     55       2      9          66          151
     12:30 PM           0        0       0        8     8          6     55        0        0         61        1      0     10      2           13       0     47       3      8          58          140
     12:45 PM           0        0       0        4     4          6     56        0        5         67        4      0      6      2           12       0     46       2      1          49          132
     01:00 PM           0        0       0        0     0          3     67        0        1         71        1      0      7      0            8       0     43       1      4          48          127
  Total Volume          0        0       0       20    20         20    245        0        6        271        8      0     26      4           38       0    191       8     22         221          550
  % App. Total          0        0       0      100              7.4   90.4        0      2.2                21.1      0   68.4   10.5                    0   86.4     3.6     10
           PHF      .000     .000     .000     .625  .625      .833    .914     .000    .300        .941     .500   .000   .650   .500         .731    .000   .868   .667    .611         .837         .911

Peak Hour Analysis From 02:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM           0        0       0        0      0         8     95        0       0         103        3      0      8       0          11       0    100      3        0        103          217
     05:15 PM           0        0       0        1      1         3     96        0       0          99        1      0      4       1           6       0    116      1        0        117          223
     05:30 PM           0        0       0        0      0         9    106        0       0         115        1      0      8       0           9       0    104      2        1        107          231
     05:45 PM           0        0       0        0      0        12    121        0       0         133        1      0     10       0          11       0    119      3        0        122          266
  Total Volume          0        0       0        1      1        32    418        0       0         450        6      0     30       1          37       0    439      9        1        449          937
  % App. Total          0        0       0      100              7.1   92.9        0       0                 16.2      0   81.1     2.7                   0   97.8      2      0.2
           PHF      .000     .000     .000     .250  .250      .667    .864     .000    .000        .846     .500   .000   .750   .250         .841    .000   .922   .750    .250         .920         .881
                                                            GREENMAN-PEDERSEN, INC.
                                                                         100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205
                                                                               Lebanon, NJ 08833
Maplewood Traffic Calming                                              Engineering and Construction Services                                                 File Name       : EDGEWO~1
Edgewood Road & Kensington Terrace                                                                                                                           Site Code       : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                                           Start Date      : 10/18/2006
Matt - Sunny, clear, 60-65                                                                                                                                   Page No         :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Pass Vehs - Med Trucks - Heavy Trucks
                           Kensington Ter                         Edgewood Rd                                Kensington Ter                             Edgewood Rd
                            Southbound                             Westbound                                   Northbound                                Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru    Right   Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    06:00 AM       0      1      0      0            1     0      0       1       0            1     0       0       0        0            0     0      0        0       0            0            2
    06:15 AM       0      1      0      0            1     0      0       0       1            1     0       0       0        0            0     0      0        0       0            0            2
    06:30 AM       1      1      0      4            6     0      1       0       1            2     0       0       0        0            0     0      0        0       1            1            9
    06:45 AM       0      0      0      0            0     0      0       1       0            1     2       1       0        2            5     1      1        0       0            2            8
         Total     1      3      0      4            8     0      1       2       2            5     2       1       0        2            5     1      1        0       1            3          21

    07:00 AM       0      4      0      0           4      0      0       0       2           2      1       1       0        2           4     1       1        0       2           4          14
    07:15 AM       0      4      0      0           4      0      1       0       1           2      0       2       0        6           8     1       1        0       4           6          20
    07:30 AM       1     19      0      0          20      0      6       0       0           6      1      14       1        0          16     1       1        0       0           2          44
    07:45 AM      11     49      7      3          70      2     19       5       4          30      5      62       2        1          70    17       2        1       5          25         195
         Total    12     76      7      3          98      2     26       5       7          40      7      79       3        9          98    20       5        1      11          37         273

    08:00 AM       6     22      2      5          35      0      6       1       0           7      0      10       1        2          13      2      7        1       0          10          65
    08:15 AM       2      7      1      0          10      1      0       0       1           2      1       4       1        1           7      1      1        1       1           4          23
    08:30 AM       5      7      0      0          12      0      1       0       2           3      0       5       0        0           5      1      1        0       0           2          22
    08:45 AM       3      9      2      0          14      0      2       0       1           3      0       3       0        1           4      0      3        0       0           3          24
         Total    16     45      5      5          71      1      9       1       4          15      1      22       2        4          29      4     12        2       1          19         134

    09:00 AM       1      6      1      0            8     0      1       0       0            1     3       1       0        0            4     0      3        1       0            4          17
    09:15 AM       1      1      0      0            2     1      1       0       0            2     0       2       1        0            3     1      0        1       0            2           9

        Total      2      7      1      0          10      1      2       0       0            3     3       3       1        0            7     1      3        2       0            6          26



    11:00 AM       0      1      0      0           1      2      0       0       0            2     2       1       0        0           3      0      1        3       2           6           12
    11:15 AM       0      1      2      0           3      1      0       0       0            1     0       1       0        0           1      1      3        1       4           9           14
    11:30 AM       0      3      0      0           3      1      0       1       0            2     1       3       2        1           7      2      1        2       0           5           17
    11:45 AM       1      2      0      0           3      0      1       0       0            1     0       5       0        2           7      1      3        0       4           8           19
         Total     1      7      2      0          10      4      1       1       0            6     3      10       2        3          18      4      8        6      10          28           62

    12:00 PM       2      1      0      2           5      0      0       0       0            0     0       0       1        0           1      0      2        0       1           3            9
    12:15 PM       1      5      1      0           7      0      0       0       1            1     1       3       0        0           4      1      3        0       5           9           21
    12:30 PM       2      2      2      1           7      0      1       0       0            1     1       4       1        0           6      3      4        1       4          12           26
    12:45 PM       1      3      0      0           4      0      0       2       0            2     1       3       0        0           4      3      3        0       5          11           21
         Total     6     11      3      3          23      0      1       2       1            4     3      10       2        0          15      7     12        1      15          35           77

    01:00 PM       1      1      0      0           2      1      0       0       0            1     1       3       0        0           4      0      1        2       3           6           13
    01:15 PM       0      4      0      0           4      0      1       0       4            5     1       2       0        0           3      1      0        1       1           3           15
    01:30 PM       0      3      1      0           4      0      2       0       0            2     1       3       0        0           4      3      1        1       0           5           15
    01:45 PM       1      4      1      0           6      0      1       0       0            1     1       2       0        0           3      1      2        4       1           8           18
         Total     2     12      2      0          16      1      4       0       4            9     4      10       0        0          14      5      4        8       5          22           61
                                                                GREENMAN-PEDERSEN, INC.
                                                                             100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205
                                                                                   Lebanon, NJ 08833
Maplewood Traffic Calming                                                  Engineering and Construction Services                                                     File Name         : EDGEWO~1
Edgewood Road & Kensington Terrace                                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 10/18/2006
Matt - Sunny, clear, 60-65                                                                                                                                           Page No           :2
                                                                    Groups Printed- Pass Vehs - Med Trucks - Heavy Trucks
                             Kensington Ter                           Edgewood Rd                                Kensington Ter                                  Edgewood Rd
                              Southbound                               Westbound                                   Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time        Left    Thru Right Peds      App. Total    Left   Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total    Left   Thru    Right   Peds     App. Total    Left   Thru    Right    Peds    App. Total   Int. Total


     03:00 PM        1      15     1      4           21       1      3       1       0            5       1       6       1        1            9       3      6        1        2           12           47
     03:15 PM        9      16     3      0           28       0      5       0       2            7       0       6       3        2           11       3      4        0        2            9           55
     03:30 PM        0       6     1      0            7       1      6       0       1            8       1       1       2        1            5       2      6        1        2           11           31
     03:45 PM        0       5     1      5           11       0      0       1       2            3       2       3       1        2            8       1      3        1        1            6           28
          Total     10      42     6      9           67       2     14       2       5           23       4      16       7        6           33       9     19        3        7           38          161

     04:00 PM        1       6     3      0           10       0      1       0       1             2      1       1       1        0            3       2      3        2        0            7           22
     04:15 PM        2       3     2      0            7       0      2       1       1             4      1       2       0        1            4       3      3        1        5           12           27
     04:30 PM        1       5     1      0            7       1      1       0       0             2      0       2       2        0            4       0      1        0        3            4           17
     04:45 PM        1       5     0      0            6       0      1       0       0             1      0       3       2        0            5       1      1        1        0            3           15
          Total      5      19     6      0           30       1      5       1       2             9      2       8       5        1           16       6      8        4        8           26           81

     05:00 PM        0       6     0      1            7       2      1       0       3            6       0       4       1        0            5       1      3        1        2            7           25
     05:15 PM        0       5     0      1            6       0      2       0       0            2       0       0       1        0            1       0      6        0        4           10           19
     05:30 PM        0       9     1      1           11       0      4       1       0            5       1       3       3        0            7       1     10        3        3           17           40
     05:45 PM        0      12     0      0           12       0      2       1       0            3       1       3       0        0            4       2      5        1        0            8           27
          Total      0      32     1      3           36       2      9       2       3           16       2      10       5        0           17       4     24        5        9           42          111

   Grand Total       55    254     33     27         369       14     72      16      28         130      31     169       27       25         252      61      96      32        67         256        1007
     Apprch %     14.9    68.8    8.9    7.3                10.8    55.4    12.3   21.5                 12.3    67.1    10.7       9.9                23.8    37.5    12.5     26.2
       Total %      5.5   25.2    3.3    2.7        36.6      1.4    7.1     1.6     2.8        12.9     3.1    16.8      2.7      2.5           25    6.1     9.5     3.2       6.7        25.4
    Pass Vehs        55    251     32     27         365       14     70      14      28         126      30     163       27       25         245      59      95      31        67         252          988
  % Pass Vehs      100    98.8     97   100         98.9     100    97.2    87.5    100         96.9    96.8    96.4     100      100         97.2    96.7      99    96.9      100         98.4         98.1
   Med Trucks         0       2     0      0            2       0      2       2       0            4      1        6       0        0            7      1       1       1         0            3           16
 % Med Trucks         0     0.8     0      0          0.5       0    2.8    12.5       0          3.1    3.2      3.6       0        0          2.8    1.6       1     3.1         0          1.2          1.6
 Heavy Trucks         0       1     1      0            2       0      0       0       0            0      0        0       0        0            0      1       0       0         0            1            3
% Heavy Trucks
                                                                        GREENMAN-PEDERSEN, INC.
                                                                                     100 Corporate Drive, Suite 205
                                                                                           Lebanon, NJ 08833
Maplewood Traffic Calming                                                          Engineering and Construction Services                                                     File Name        : EDGEWO~1
Edgewood Road & Kensington Terrace                                                                                                                                           Site Code        : 00000000
10/18/06 6am - 6pm                                                                                                                                                           Start Date       : 10/18/2006
Matt - Sunny, clear, 60-65                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :3


                                Kensington Ter                                 Edgewood Rd                                  Kensington Ter                               Edgewood Rd
                                 Southbound                                     Westbound                                    Northbound                                   Eastbound
     Start Time      Left    Thru Right Peds           App. Total    Left   Thru   Right     Peds   App. Total     Left   Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total    Left   Thru    Right    Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 09:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
      07:30 AM            1        19         0      0         20      0      6       0         0           6        1     14       1        0          16      1        1       0        0           2           44
      07:45 AM           11        49         7                70      2     19       5         4          30        5     62       2                   70     17                1        5          25          195
      08:00 AM            6        22         2      5        35        0      6      1       0             7         0     10       1       2         13        2      7         1      0           10          65
      08:15 AM         2        7         1        0          10        1      0      0       1             2         1      4       1       1          7        1       1        1      1            4          23
  Total Volume        20       97        10        8         135        3     31      6       5            45         7     90       5       4        106       21      11        3      6           41         327
  % App. Total      14.8     71.9       7.4      5.9                  6.7   68.9   13.3    11.1                     6.6   84.9     4.7     3.8                51.2    26.8      7.3   14.6
           PHF      .455     .495     .357     .400          .482   .375    .408   .300    .313          .375     .350    .363   .625    .500         .379    .309    .393    .750    .300         .410        .419

Peak Hour Analysis From 11:00 AM to 01:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:15 PM
      12:15 PM           1        5        1        0      7           0      0       0         1           1        1      3       0       0            4       1      3        0        5           9           21
      12:30 PM           2        2        2        1      7           0      1       0       0             1        1      4       1       0             6      3      4        1       4           12           26
      12:45 PM           1        3        0        0      4           0       0      2       0              2       1       3       0      0            4       3       3       0       5           11           21
      01:00 PM           1        1        0        0      2           1       0      0       0             1        1       3       0      0            4       0       1       2       3            6           13
  Total Volume           5       11        3        1    20            1       1      2       1             5        4      13       1      0           18       7      11        3     17           38           81
  % App. Total         25        55       15        5                 20      20     40      20                   22.2    72.2     5.6      0                 18.4    28.9      7.9   44.7
           PHF       .625      .550    .375      .250  .714         .250    .250   .250    .250          .625    1.000    .813   .250    .000         .750    .583    .688    .375    .850         .792        .779

Peak Hour Analysis From 03:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 03:00 PM
      03:00 PM           1       15        1        4     21           1      3       1         0           5        1      6       1        1           9       3      6        1        2          12           47
      03:15 PM           9       16        3        0     28            0     5        0        2           7        0       6      3        2          11       3       4        0      2            9           55
      03:30 PM           0        6        1        0      7            1     6        0      1              8       1       1      2       1            5       2       6        1      2           11          31
      03:45 PM           0        5        1        5     11            0      0       1      2             3        2       3      1       2            8       1       3        1      1            6          28
  Total Volume         10        42        6        9     67            2     14       2      5            23        4      16      7       6           33       9      19        3      7           38         161
  % App. Total       14.9      62.7        9     13.4                 8.7   60.9     8.7   21.7                   12.1    48.5   21.2    18.2                 23.7      50      7.9   18.4
           PHF       .278      .656    .500      .450  .598         .500    .583   .500    .625          .719     .500    .667   .583    .750         .750    .750    .792    .750    .875         .792        .732
  APPENDIX D


Collision Diagrams
      APPENDIX E


Construction Cost Estimates
                                                           Maplewood Traffic Calming
                                                      Conceptual Solutions Quantity Estimates

Prepared by: J. Steponanko 07-16-07
Checked by: M. Levan 7-24-07


                                                         INTERSECTION COST ESTIMATES
              INTERSECTION                                  DESCRIPTION                         PRICE        UNITS   QUANTITY       AMOUNT
                                                ROADWAY EXCAVATION                        $          30.00    CY        14      $         420.00
                                                CONCRETE SIDEWALK, 4" THICK               $          65.00    SY        5       $         325.00
        Valley Street & Parker Avenue           CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                    $          25.00    LF       179      $       4,475.00
                                                PEDESTRIAN SIGNAL ASSEMBLY                $       1,800.00    U         8       $      14,400.00
                                                TRAFFIC SIGNAL ASSEMBLY                   $       3,400.00    U         4       $      13,600.00
                                                SIGNS                                     $          40.00    SF        50      $       2,000.00
                                                                                                               SUBTOTAL         $      35,220.00
                                                                                                             CONTINGENCIES                  1.25
                                                                                                               MULTIPLIER                    1.5
                                                                                                                 TOTAL          $      66,100.00

                                                ROADWAY EXCAVATION                        $         30.00     CY        11      $         330.00
     Prospect Street & Elmwood Avenue           CONCRETE SIDEWALK, 4" THICK               $         65.00     SY        19      $       1,235.00
                                                CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                    $         25.00     LF       156      $       3,900.00
                                                                                                               SUBTOTAL         $       5,465.00
                                                                                                             CONTINGENCIES                  1.25
                                                                                                               MULTIPLIER                    1.5
                                                                                                                 TOTAL          $      10,300.00

                                                ROADWAY EXCAVATION                        $         30.00     CY        19      $         570.00
       Valley Street & Jefferson Avenue         CONCRETE SIDEWALK, 4" THICK               $         65.00     SY        7       $         455.00
                                                CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                    $         25.00     LF       201      $       5,025.00
                                                                                                               SUBTOTAL         $       6,050.00
                                                                                                             CONTINGENCIES                  1.25
                                                                                                               MULTIPLIER                    1.5
                                                                                                                 TOTAL          $      11,400.00

                                          ROADWAY EXCAVATION                              $         30.00     CY        14      $         420.00
Ridgewood Road & Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane CONCRETE SIDEWALK, 4" THICK                     $         65.00     SY        33      $       2,145.00
                                          CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                          $         25.00     LF       159      $       3,975.00
                                                                                                               SUBTOTAL         $       6,540.00
                                                                                                             CONTINGENCIES                  1.25
                                                                                                               MULTIPLIER                    1.5
                                                                                                                 TOTAL          $      12,300.00

                                                ROADWAY EXCAVATION                        $         30.00     CY        12      $         360.00
     Parker Avenue & Kensington Terrace         CONCRETE SIDEWALK, 4" THICK               $         65.00     SY        10      $         650.00
                                                CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                    $         25.00     LF       190      $       4,750.00
                                                                                                               SUBTOTAL         $       5,760.00
                                                                                                             CONTINGENCIES                  1.25
                                                                                                               MULTIPLIER                    1.5
                                                                                                                 TOTAL          $      10,800.00


MULTIPLIER
MOBILIZATION                              10%
MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC                    10%
CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                  25%
                     SAY                  50%

CONTINGENCIES                             25%
                                                          Maplewood Traffic Calming
                                                     Conceptual Solutions Quantity Estimates

Prepared by: J. Steponanko 07-17-07
Checked by:

                                                          ROADWAY COST ESTIMATES
                 ROADWAY                                 BUMP-OUT TYPE                         PRICE        UNITS   QUANTITY       AMOUNT
             Ridgewood Road                 BUMP-OUT ALT. #2                              $     22,000.00    U           5     $      110,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #1           BUMP-OUT "T" TYPE                             $     11,000.00    U           22    $      242,000.00
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $      352,000.00

             Ridgewood Road                 RAISED INTERSECTION, "T" TYPE                 $     12,000.00    U           11    $      132,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #2
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $      132,000.00

              Boyden Avenue                 BUMP-OUT "T" TYPE                             $     11,000.00    U           7     $       77,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #1
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $       77,000.00

              Boyden Avenue                 RAISED INTERSECTION, "T" TYPE                 $     12,000.00    U           7     $       84,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #2
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $       84,000.00

                                            BUMP-OUT ALT. #1                              $     23,000.00    U           1     $       23,000.00
              Prospect Street               BUMP-OUT ALT. #2                              $     22,000.00    U           1     $       22,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #1           BUMP-OUT "T" TYPE                             $     11,000.00    U           6     $       66,000.00
                                            CHICANE                                       $     39,000.00    U           2     $       78,000.00
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $      189,000.00

              Prospect Street               RAISED INTERSECTION, FOUR-WAY                 $     15,000.00    U           2     $       30,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #2           RAISED INTERSECTION, "T" TYPE                 $     12,000.00    U           4     $       48,000.00
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $       78,000.00

                                            ROADWAY EXCAVATION                            $        30.00     CY        570     $       17,100.00
              Prospect Street               CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                        $        25.00     LF       7700     $      192,500.00
           Conceptual Solution #3           TOPSOILING                                    $         4.00     SY       2567     $       10,268.00
                                            FERTILIZING & SEEDING                         $         2.00     SY       2567     $        5,134.00
                                                                                                              SUBTOTAL         $      225,002.00
                                                                                                            CONTINGENCIES                   1.25
                                                                                                              MULTIPLIER                     1.5
                                                                                                                TOTAL          $      422,000.00

               Baker Street                 BUMP-OUT "T" TYPE                             $     11,000.00    U           1     $       11,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #1           MIDBLOCK NARROWING                            $     12,000.00    U           1     $       12,000.00
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $       23,000.00

                                            ROADWAY EXCAVATION                            $        30.00     CY         7      $          210.00
               Jacoby Street                CONCRETE SIDEWALK, 4" THICK                   $        65.00     SY       145      $        9,425.00
           Conceptual Solution #1           CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                        $        25.00     LF        31      $          775.00
                                            STRIPING                                      $         2.00     LF       2350     $        4,700.00
                                            SIGNING                                       $        40.00     SF        50      $        2,000.00
                                                                                                              SUBTOTAL         $       16,900.00
                                                                                                            CONTINGENCIES                   1.25
                                                                                                              MULTIPLIER                     1.5
                                                                                                                TOTAL          $       32,000.00

            Kensington Terrace              SPEED CUSHIONS                                $      7,000.00    U           4     $       28,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #1           TRAFFIC CIRCLE                                $      9,000.00    U           1     $        9,000.00
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $       37,000.00

            Kensington Terrace              RAISED INTERSECTION, FOUR-WAY                 $     15,000.00    U           1     $       15,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #2           RAISED INTERSECTION, "T" TYPE                 $     12,000.00    U           2     $       24,000.00
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $       39,000.00

             Sommer Avenue                  SPEED CUSHIONS                                $      7,000.00    U           2     $       14,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #1           TRAFFIC CIRCLE                                $      9,000.00    U           2     $       18,000.00
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $       32,000.00

             Sommer Avenue                  RAISED INTERSECTION, FOUR-WAY                 $     15,000.00    U           2     $       30,000.00
           Conceptual Solution #2           RAISED INTERSECTION, "T" TYPE                 $     12,000.00    U           2     $       24,000.00
                                                                                                                 TOTAL         $       54,000.00

MULTIPLIER
MOBILIZATION                          10%
MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC                10%
CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING              25%
                      SAY             50%

CONTINGENCIES                         25%
                                                   Maplewood Traffic Calming
                                                 Typical Traffic Calming Measures
                                                       Costs for Estimating


Prepared by: J. Steponanko 07-17-07
Checked by: M. Levan 7-24-07

                                                    AVERAGE COST BY TYPE
       TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURE                 TYPICAL SUBTOTAL CONTINGENCIES       MULTIPLIER   TYPICAL TOTAL

           Bump-out Alternative #1                $12,100.00            1.25           1.5         $23,000.00

           Bump-out Alternative #2                $11,760.00            1.25           1.5         $22,000.00

              Bump-out 'T' type                    $5,612.50            1.25           1.5         $11,000.00

                Traffic Circle                     $4,743.00            1.25           1.5         $9,000.00

                  Chicane                         $20,575.00            1.25           1.5         $39,000.00

             Midblock Narrowing                    $6,660.00            1.25           1.5         $12,000.00

       Raised Intersection (Four-Way)              $7,840.00            1.25           1.5         $15,000.00

        Raised Intersection ('T' Type)             $6,330.00            1.25           1.5         $12,000.00

              Speed Cushions                       $3,568.00            1.25           1.5         $7,000.00




MULTIPLIER
MOBILIZATION                             10%
MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC                   10%
CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                 25%
                       SAY               50%

CONTINGENCIES                            25%
                                                 Maplewood Traffic Calming
                                               Typical Traffic Calming Measures
                                                     Costs for Estimating

Prepared by: J. Steponanko 07-17-07
Checked by: M. Levan 7-24-07


          MEASURE                             DESCRIPTION                       PRICE       UNITS    QUANTITY         AMOUNT
                                ROADWAY EXCAVATION                          $      30.00      CY      8           $            240.00
                                CONCRETE DRIVEWAY, 6" THICK                 $      75.00      SY      13          $            975.00
                                CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                      $      25.00      LF      50          $          1,250.00
     Typical Traffic Circle     TOPSOILING                                  $       4.00      SY      23          $             92.00
                                FERTILIZING & SEEDING                       $       2.00      SY      23          $             46.00
                                STRIPING                                    $       2.00      LF      70          $            140.00
                                SIGNING                                     $      40.00      SF      50          $          2,000.00
                                                                                               SUBTOTAL           $          4,743.00

                                ROADWAY EXCAVATION                          $      30.00      CY      85          $          2,550.00
           Chicane              CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                      $      25.00      LF     625          $         15,625.00
                                TOPSOILING                                  $       4.00      SY     400          $          1,600.00
                                FERTILIZING & SEEDING                       $       2.00      SY     400          $            800.00
                                                                                               SUBTOTAL           $         20,575.00

                                ROADWAY EXCAVATION                          $      30.00      CY      25          $            750.00
     Midblock Narrowing         CONCRETE VERTICAL CURB                      $      25.00      LF     210          $          5,250.00
                                TOPSOILING                                  $       4.00      SY     110          $            440.00
                                FERTILIZING & SEEDING                       $       2.00      SY     110          $            220.00
                                                                                               SUBTOTAL           $          6,660.00

                                MILLING, 2" DEPTH                           $      10.00      CY       47         $            470.00
       Speed Cushions           ROADWAY 2" SURFACE COURSE                   $      90.00       T       9          $            810.00
          1 Location            STRIPING                                    $       2.00      LF      144         $            288.00
                                SIGNING                                     $      40.00      SF       50         $          2,000.00
                                                                                                SUBTOTAL          $          3,568.00

     Raised Intersection        MILLING, VAR. DEPTH                         $      10.00      CY      100         $          1,000.00
      4-Way Intersection        ROADWAY 3" SURFACE COURSE                   $      90.00       T       76         $          6,840.00
                                                                                                SUBTOTAL          $          7,840.00

     Raised Intersection        MILLING, VAR. DEPTH                         $      10.00       CY         75      $            750.00
     T' Type Intersection       ROADWAY 3" SURFACE COURSE                   $      90.00        T         62      $          5,580.00
                                                                                                 SUBTOTAL         $          6,330.00
 NOTE:    Measures do not include cost of pavement treatments, utilities, ROW, drainage, driveway impacts or landscaping.
   APPENDIX F


Conceptual Solutions
  APPENDIX G


Sight Triangle Plans
   APPENDIX H


Traffic Signal Warrant
INTRODUCTION:

At the request of the Township of Maplewood, Keller and Kirkpatrick, Inc.
performed a preliminary traffic signal warrant analysis for the unsignalized
intersection of C.R. 638, Valley Street, and Jefferson Avenue. The intersection
of the two roadways occurs at milepost 1.23 of Valley Street. Valley Street and
Jefferson Avenue have a posted speed limit of 35 mph and 25 mph, respectively.
Limited intersection sight distance along with a steep grade along Jefferson
Avenue, which forms the stem of this `T' intersection, have been identified as
hazards to both motorists and pedestrians.

This study contains the results of the traffic signal warrant analysis for the
unsignalized intersection of Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue. The warrant
analysis has been performed in accordance with Chapter 4C of the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, 2003 Edition (MUTCD), as amended by the
Federal Highway Administration.


DATA COLLECTION:

Keller and Kirkpatrick performed a classified manual turning movement count at
the intersection of Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue on Wednesday, October
18, 2006 between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. The count data was
classified in 15-minute increments into the following three categories as per the
FHWA Traffic Monitoring Guide:

·   Pedestrians/Bicyclists
·   Automobiles/Light Trucks (Motorcycles, cars, SUV's, minivans, pick-up trucks
    and full-size vans, for personal or commercial use)
·   Medium Trucks (Single unit trucks)
·   Heavy Trucks/Buses (Tractor trailers)

Copies of the raw manual count data along with a flow diagram indicating the raw
volume for each movement and the intersection approach and exit leg totals
during the AM, midday and PM peak hours can be found in Appendix C.

Table 1 contains a summary of the existing major and minor street volumes for
the eight (8) highest hours as developed from the aforementioned count data. In
accordance with Section 4A.02 of the MUTCD, the major street and the minor
street are defined as those normally carrying the higher and lower volume of
vehicular traffic, respectively. Based on the intersection's traffic volumes, Valley
Street is the major street and Jefferson Avenue is the minor street.




Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue - Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis         Page 1
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                            Table 1 ­ Existing Traffic Volumes

                      Major Street (Valley St.)       Minor Street (Jefferson Ave.)     Total
     Hour
                     NB           SB       Total        EB         WB       Total      Volume

   7 - 8 AM          325         368        693          34            0      34         727
   8 ­ 9 AM          403         505        908          79            0      79         987
11 AM ­ 12 PM        340         335        675          66            0      66         741
  12 ­ 1 PM          329         355        684          90            0      90         774
   1 ­ 2PM           341         401        742          77            0      77         819
   3 ­ 4 PM          423         486        909         131            0     131        1,040
   4 ­ 5 PM          472         541       1,031        113            0     113        1,126
   5 ­ 6 PM          536         577       1,113        132            0     132        1,245
                    3,169       3,568      6,737        722            0     722        7,459

WARRANT EVALUATION:

The MUTCD states that a signal warrant study should consider the effects of the
right turn vehicles from the minor street approaches and that engineering
judgment should be used to determine what, if any, portion of the right turn traffic
is subtracted from the minor street traffic count when evaluating the count
against the signal warrants. Since the minor street in this case is a single lane
with limited sight distance, no portion of the right turn traffic was subtracted from
the minor street traffic count for this analysis.

Section 4C.02 - Warrant 1, Eight-Hour Vehicular Volume: In order to satisfy
Warrant 1, the MUTCD provides a series of minimum traffic volume requirements
for both the major and minor streets for each of the highest eight hours
throughout the day with given conditions. The conditions are Condition A ­
Minimum Vehicular Volume and Condition B ­ Interruption of Continuous Traffic.
This warrant also specifies that if neither Condition A or B is met that a
combination of these conditions using 80 percent of the traffic volumes can be
used to satisfy the warrant. Table 2 summarizes the required traffic volumes to
satisfy Warrant 1 as per Table 4C-1 of the MUTCD. Table 3 summarizes the
existing traffic volumes for the highest eight hours and if they satisfy the
corresponding condition.

                Table 2: Warrant 1 - Traffic Volume Requirements
                                        Condition A           Condition B      Combination
             Volume
                                          (100%)                (100%)           (80%)
 Major Street (Both Approaches)             500                  750                  600
 Minor Street (One Direction)               150                  75                   120




Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue - Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis                   Page 2
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                                                                      Table 3: Warrant 1 - Analysis

      Hour                                                  Major Street        Minor Street           Condition A            Condition B          Combination
                                                                                                                                                     A and B
    7 - 8 AM          693                                                               34                    No                      No                   No
    8 ­ 9 AM          908                                                               79                    No                      Yes                  No
   9 ­ 10 AM          675                                                               66                    No                      No                   No
 11 AM ­ 12 PM        684                                                               90                    No                      No                   No
    1 ­ 2PM           742                                                               77                    No                      No                   No
    3 ­ 4 PM          909                                                              131                    No                      Yes                  Yes
    4 ­ 5 PM         1,013                                                             113                    No                      Yes                  No
    5 ­ 6 PM         1,113                                                             132                    No                      Yes                  Yes
              Warrant Satisfied?                                                                              No                      No                   No

As indicated in Table 3, Warrant 1 is not satisfied.

Section 4C.03 - Warrant 2, Four-Hour Vehicular Volume: The MUTCD
specifies that Warrant 2 is satisfied when for each of any four hours of an
average day, the plotted points representing the vehicles per hour on the major
street (both approaches) and the corresponding vehicles per hour on the higher
volume minor street approach (one direction only) for the appropriate number of
lanes for both streets, all fall above the applicable curve in Figure 4C-1 of the
MUTCD. Figure 3 shows the plotted volume combination for the highest eight
hours throughout the day in comparison to the appropriate curve from Figure 4C-
2 of the MUTCD.
                         Figure 2 ­ Four Hour Warrant


                                                                    Warrant 2 - Peak Four-Hour Average Volume


                                                    350
          Minor Street High Volume Approach - VPH




                                                    300

                                                    250

                                                    200

                                                    150

                                                    100

                                                    50

                                                     0
                                                      100     200     300      400        500       600       700       800          900    1000    1100     1200
                                                                                     Major Street - Total of Both Approaches - VPH




                                                                    MUTCD Peak Four Hour Average Warrant         Observed




Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue - Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis                                                                                 Page 3
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
As indicated in Figure 2, Warrant 2 is not satisfied since only three of the highest
eight hours exceed the required curve.

Section 4C.04 - Warrant 3, Peak Hour: The MUTCD specifies that Warrant 3 is
intended for use at a location where traffic conditions are such that for a
minimum of one (1) hour of an average day, the minor street traffic suffers undue
delay when entering or crossing the major street. The MUTCD further states that
this warrant shall only be applied in unusual cases, such as office complexes,
manufacturing plants, industrial complexes, or high-occupancy vehicle facilities
that attract or discharge large numbers of vehicles over a short time. Therefore,
Warrant 3 is not applicable to this intersection.

Section 4C.05 - Warrant 4, Pedestrian Volume: The MUTCD specifies that
Warrant 4 is intended for application where the traffic volume on the major street
is so heavy that pedestrians experience excessive delay in crossing the major
street. The need for a traffic signal shall be considered under this warrant if both
of the following criteria are met:

A. The pedestrian volume crossing the major street during an average day is
   100 or more for each of any four hours or 190 or more during any one hour;
   and

B. There are fewer than 60 gaps per hour in the traffic stream of adequate length
   to allow pedestrians to cross during the same period when the pedestrian
   criterion is satisfied.

Based on field observation the pedestrian volumes crossing Valley Street at
Jefferson Avenue do not meet the criteria for Part A, above. Therefore, Warrant
4 is not satisfied.

Section 4C.06 - Warrant 5, School Crossing: The MUTCD specifies that
Warrant 5 is intended for application where the fact that school children cross the
major street is the principal reason to consider installing a traffic signal. Several
school children were observed crossing Valley Street at Jefferson Avenue during
the afternoon. However an established school crossing is located at the
intersection of Valley Street and Parker Avenue where the majority of school
children cross with the use of a school crossing guard. Therefore, Warrant 5 is
not satisfied at this location.

Section 4C.07 - Warrant 6, Coordinated Signal System: The MUTCD
specifies that Warrant 6 provides justification for the installation of a traffic signal
at an intersection to provide progressive movement in a coordinated signal
system where it would not otherwise be needed in order to maintain proper
platooning of vehicles. However, this warrant should not be applied where the
resultant spacing of traffic control signals would be less than 1,000 feet. Since
the nearest signal, located at Valley Street and Parker Avenue, is approximately

Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue - Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis            Page 4
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
573 feet from the intersection of Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue, Warrant 6 is
not satisfied.

Section 4C.08 - Warrant 7, Crash Experience: The MUTCD specifies that
Warrant 7 is intended for application where the severity and frequency of crashes
are the principal reasons to consider the installation of a traffic signal. The need
for a traffic signal shall be considered under this warrant if all of the following
criteria are met:

A. Adequate trial of alternatives with satisfactory observance and enforcement
   has failed to reduce the crash frequency, and:
B. Five or more reported crashes, of types susceptible to correction by a traffic
   signal, have occurred within a 12-month period, each crash involving personal
   injury or property damage apparently exceeding the applicable requirements
   for a reportable crash, and:
C. For each of any eight hours of an average day, the vehicles per hour (vph)
   given in both of the 80 percent columns of Condition A in Table 4C-1, or the
   vph in both of the 80 percent columns of Condition B in Table 4C-1 exists on
   the major street and the higher volume minor street approaches, respectively,
   to the intersection, or the volume of pedestrian traffic is not less than 80
   percent of the requirements specified in the Pedestrian Volume warrant.

According to the individual reports for crashes that occurred at the intersection of
Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue during the three-year period extending from
2004 to 2006 as provided by the Maplewood Township Engineering Department,
six, two and two crashes occurred during the years of 2004, 2005 and 2006,
respectively. It can be reasoned that a traffic signal could have prevented three
of the six crashes that occurred in 2004 and none of the other crashes during the
remaining years. In addition, an adequate trial and observance of other safety
measures has not been implemented and the existing vehicular and pedestrian
volumes do not satisfy the conditions of Part C, above. Therefore, Warrant 7 is
not satisfied since none of the criteria were met for crash experience.

Section 4C.09 - Warrant 8, Roadway Network: The MUTCD specifies that the
installation of a traffic signal may be justified to encourage concentration and
organization of traffic flow on a roadway network. Specifically, it states that the
intersection is to be common to two or more major routes. A major route as used
in this warrant shall have one or more of the following characteristics:

A. It is part of the street or highway system that serves as the principal roadway
   network for through traffic flow, or:
B. It includes rural or suburban highways outside, entering, or traversing a City,
   or:
C. It appears as a major route on an official plan, such as a major street plan in
   an urban area traffic and transportation study.



Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue - Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis         Page 5
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
Warrant 8 is not satisfied since none of the major route characteristics listed
above identify Jefferson Avenue as a major route.

CONCLUSION:

Based on our comprehensive engineering study of the traffic conditions,
pedestrian characteristics, and physical characteristics of the intersection of C.R.
638, Valley Street, and Jefferson Avenue, the installation of a traffic signal at this
intersection is not warranted based on the criteria established in Chapter 4C of
the MUTCD.




Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue - Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis          Page 6
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
    APPENDIX I


Multi-Way Stop Warrant
INTRODUCTION:

At the request of the Township of Maplewood, Essex County, Keller and
Kirkpatrick, Inc. performed a preliminary multi-way stop needs analysis for the
unsignalized intersection of Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane.
Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane form a four-legged intersection
with a stop condition along the approaches of Cedar Lane and E. Cedar Lane.
All roadways have a posted speed limit of 25 mph. Limited intersection sight
distance has been identified as a hazard by the Township of Maplewood along
with speeding along Ridgewood Road.

This study contains the results of the multi-way stop needs analysis for the
unsignalized intersection of Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane.
The needs analysis has been performed in accordance with Chapter 2B of the
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, 2003 Edition (MUTCD), as amended
by the Federal Highway Administration.


DATA COLLECTION:

GPI performed a classified manual turning movement count at the intersection of
Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane on Thursday, October 19, 2006
between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. The count data was classified in
15-minute increments into the following three categories as per the FHWA Traffic
Monitoring Guide:

·   Pedestrians/Bicyclists
·   Automobiles/Light Trucks (Motorcycles, cars, SUV's, minivans, pick-up trucks
    and full-size vans, for personal or commercial use)
·   Medium Trucks (Single unit trucks)
·   Heavy Trucks/Buses (Tractor trailers)

Copies of the raw manual count data along with a flow diagram indicating the raw
volume for each movement and the intersection approach and exit leg totals
during the AM, midday and PM peak hours can be found in Appendix C.

Table 1 contains a summary of the existing major and minor street volumes for
the eight (8) highest hours as developed from the aforementioned count data. In
accordance with Section 4A.02 of the MUTCD, the major street and the minor
street are defined as those normally carrying the higher and lower volume of
vehicular traffic, respectively. Based on the intersection's traffic volumes,
Ridgewood Road is the major street and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane is the minor
street.




Ridgewood Road & Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane ­ Multi-Way Stop Warrant Analysis   Page 1
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                          Table 1 ­ Existing Traffic Volumes

                 Major Street (Ridgewood Rd.)      Minor Street (Cedar La.)     Total
    Hour
                   NB          SB      Total       EB        WB        Total   Volume

   7 - 8 AM        136         165      301         34        9          43     344
   8 ­ 9 AM        172         228      400         40        10         50     450
11 AM ­ 12 PM      101         109      210         22        3          25     235
  12 ­ 1 PM        144         109      253         24        4          28     281
   1 ­ 2PM         120         100      220         22        6          28     248
   3 ­ 4 PM        194         190      384         42        7          49     433
   4 ­ 5 PM        166         158      324         30        7          37     361
   5 ­ 6 PM        217         176      393         37        10         47     440
 TOTAL (8 hr)     1,250       1,235    2,485       251        56        307    2,792



EVALUATION:

A needs evaluation was conducted using the guidance presented in Part 2B.07
of the MUTCD.

Criterion A ­ Interim Measure Prior to Signalization: In accordance with the
MUTCD, in circumstances where traffic control signals are justified, a multi-way
stop installation may be used as an interim measure until arrangements can be
made for the installation of the traffic control signal.

Criterion A is not satisfied since the multi-way stop condition is not perceived to
be an interim measure for this intersection.

Criterion B ­ Crash Experience: The MUTCD states that the need for a multi-
way stop shall be considered if five or more reported crashes, of types
susceptible to correction by a multi-way stop installation, have occurred within a
12-month period. Such crashes include right- and left-turn collisions as well as
right-angle collisions.

According to the individual reports for crashes that occurred at the intersection of
Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane during the three-year period
extending from 2004 to 2006 as provided by the Maplewood Township
Engineering Department, no reported crashes occurred during 2004 while two
reported crashes occurred during 2005 and then again in 2006. It can be
reasoned that a multi-way stop could have prevented the four total crashes that
occurred in 2005 and 2006. However, due to the insufficient number of
correctable crashes during a 12-month period, Criterion B is not satisfied.

Criterion C ­ Minimum Volumes: The MUTCD provides a series of minimum
traffic volume requirements for both the major and minor streets for each of the


Ridgewood Road & Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane ­ Multi-Way Stop Warrant Analysis    Page 2
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
highest eight hours throughout the day with given conditions. The conditions are
as follows:

1. The vehicular volume entering the intersection from the major street
   approaches (total of both approaches) averages at least 300 vehicles per
   hour for any 8 hours of an average day, and
2. The combined vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle volume entering the
   intersection from the minor street approaches (total of both approaches)
   averages at least 200 units per hour for the same 8 hours, with an average
   delay to minor-street vehicular traffic of at least 30 seconds per vehicle during
   the highest hour, but
3. If the 85th-percentile approach speed of the major-street traffic exceeds 65
   km/h or exceeds 40 mph, the minimum vehicular volume warrants are 70
   percent of the above values.

As indicated in Table 2, Criterion C.1 is met, C.2 is not met and C.3 is not met
since the 85th percentile approach speed of the major street is less than 40 mph.
Therefore, Criterion C is not satisfied.

           Table 2: Multi-Way Stops - Traffic Volume Requirements
                                    Average 8 Hour
              Volume                                   Warrant (100%)    Warrant (80%)
                                    Volume (veh/hr)
 Major Street (Both Approaches)           311                300              240
 Minor Street (Both Approaches)            46                200              160
 Warrant Satisfied?                                          No               No

Criterion D ­ Combination of Criteria: Where no single criterion is satisfied, a
multi-way stop installation should be considered when Criteria B, C.1 and C.2 are
all satisfied to 80 percent of the minimum values. Since only Criterion C.1 is
satisfied to or greater than 80 percent, Criterion D is not satisfied.


CONCLUSION:

Based on our comprehensive engineering study of the traffic conditions,
pedestrian characteristics, and physical characteristics of the intersection of
Ridgewood Road and Cedar Avenue/E. Cedar Lane, the installation of a multi-
way stop at this intersection is not justified based on the criteria established in
Chapter 2B of the MUTCD.




Ridgewood Road & Cedar Lane/E. Cedar Lane ­ Multi-Way Stop Warrant Analysis     Page 3
Township of Maplewood, Essex County
APPENDIX J


Digital Images
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
            C.R. 638, Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 1




                            Photo 2

                                                              Page 1 of 5
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
            C.R. 638, Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 3




                            Photo 4

                                                              Page 2 of 5
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
            C.R. 638, Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 5




                            Photo 6

                                                              Page 3 of 5
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
            C.R. 638, Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 7




                            Photo 8

                                                              Page 4 of 5
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
            C.R. 638, Valley Street and Jefferson Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 9




                            Photo 10

                                                              Page 5 of 5
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
             C.R. 638, Valley Street and Parker Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 11




                            Photo 12

                                                              Page 1 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
             C.R. 638, Valley Street and Parker Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 13




                            Photo 14

                                                              Page 2 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
             C.R. 638, Valley Street and Parker Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 15




                            Photo 16

                                                              Page 3 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
             C.R. 638, Valley Street and Parker Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 17




                            Photo 18

                                                              Page 4 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                 Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane
                          February 2007




                            Photo 43




                            Photo 44

                                                              Page 1 of 6
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                 Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane
                          February 2007




                            Photo 45




                            Photo 46

                                                              Page 2 of 6
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                 Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane
                          February 2007




                            Photo 47




                            Photo 48

                                                              Page 3 of 6
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                 Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane
                          February 2007




                            Photo 49




                            Photo 50

                                                              Page 4 of 6
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                 Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane
                          February 2007




                            Photo 51




                            Photo 52

                                                              Page 5 of 6
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                 Ridgewood Road and Cedar Lane
                          February 2007




                            Photo 53




                            Photo 54

                                                              Page 6 of 6
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
              Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace
                          February 2007




                            Photo 55




                            Photo 56

                                                              Page 1 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
              Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace
                          February 2007




                            Photo 57




                            Photo 58

                                                              Page 2 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
              Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace
                          February 2007




                            Photo 59




                            Photo 60

                                                              Page 3 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
              Parker Avenue and Kensington Terrace
                          February 2007




                            Photo 61




                                                              Page 4 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
              Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place
                          February 2007




                            Photo 62




                            Photo 63

                                                              Page 1 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
              Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place
                          February 2007




                            Photo 64




                            Photo 65

                                                              Page 2 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
              Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place
                          February 2007




                            Photo 66




                            Photo 67

                                                              Page 3 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
              Kensington Terrace and Edgewood Place
                          February 2007




                            Photo 68




                            Photo 69

                                                              Page 4 of 4
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 70




                            Photo 71

                                                              Page 1 of 3
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 72




                            Photo 73

                                                              Page 2 of 3
Traffic Calming Needs Study - Township of Maplewood, Essex County
                Prospect Street and Elmwood Avenue
                           February 2007




                            Photo 74




                                                              Page 3 of 3
       APPENDIX K


NJDOT Straight-Line Diagrams
                             ESSEX COUNTY 638 (South to North)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mile Posts: 0.000 - 2.000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Woo dlan d Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Third Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Je ffe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Du




                                                                                                              ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Salte r Pl                                                          nne




                                                                                                            en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ll R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Maplewo od Aven ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Parker Ave We st
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o ad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rs on
                                                                                                          Av




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pierson Road
                                                                                                  ily
                                                                                                 Em
                                                    Audrey Ter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B urn




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A v en
                                                                                                                                            eet
                                                                                                                    Tu x                                                                                                                                                                                                e t Str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pl
                                                                                                                         ed o                                                                                                                                                                                                             e et                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          La ck aw anna




                                                                                                                                        h Str
                                                                                                              124             Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fo urth St
                                                                                                                                      Smit
                                                   Allen Avenu e                                                                                                                                        630




                                                                                                                                                           tee
                                                                   §
                                                                   ¨
                                                                   ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 638




                                                                                                                                                     r S tr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fifth Stre
 Secondary




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      re et
                                                                         78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      re et
  Direction                                                                                                                       630




                                                                                                                                                   Mille




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Baker St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e et




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ryn da Roa d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      m y S tr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Oa k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P ark
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O a kv
                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                             Ma y Te r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A ca de




                                                                                                                             ee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Broa dview




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                et
                                                                              r




                                                                                                                       n Str




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               North C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lan d
                                                                   Carlton Te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bea c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ro a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ie w A
  Primary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N orth Te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Park Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P ark
                                                                                                                     Ma rio
  Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ro a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     h Str
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Harv ard Aven ue
                                                                                                                                                                           Rosaly n Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tu s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  v en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fra n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tie ch no




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       re sc en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Girard Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Villag e Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      er R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Aven ue
                                                                                                                                              et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r A ve nu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e




                                                                                                                                            tr e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ca n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           klin
                                                                                                                                                             et
                                                                                                                                       sS
                                                                                  Doris Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oa d
                                                                                                                                                           re




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R oa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t Drive
                                                                                                                                     i le


                                                                                                                                                     St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ga rfie ld Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            en ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Summit Av




                                                                                                                                   St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                   er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Stre et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pros pe ct




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ar




                                                                                                  Juliat Pl




                                                                                                                                               w
                                 700096




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ie




                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                 Montclair Avenue                                                                    Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Av en ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ric hmond

               Pavement
                Shoulder
    Number of Lanes
             Speed Limit
            Street Name

 Interstate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.0
                  287
   Route




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.53)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maplewood Twp, Essex Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                             South Orange Twp, Essex Co
                             Secondary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * Secondary direction milepost
US Route           22
                                                                                                                                                                                               630
 NJ Route          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LACKAWANNA PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JEFFERSON AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PIERSON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W PARKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                       MILLB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAKER ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OAKLAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OAKVIEW
   County
                  689




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HIXON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.34)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.71)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.86)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.05)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1.23)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1.34)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.53)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1.77)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.92)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.08)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4TH
    Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                              URN
Interchange


                                                                                                                                                                    Union County Line
                    2
  Number
   Grade
 Separated
Interchange
  Traffic
  Signal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1.86) MASSELL TER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH CRESCENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.63) TUSCAN RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BROADVIEW AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CRESTVIEW AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EDGEWOOD PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S PIERSON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HARVARD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOMMER AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CROWELL PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARNOLD TER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROLAND AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LINCOLN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GIRARD PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RYNDA RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                       VILLA TER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARK AVE
Toll Plaza




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARK RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AVEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5TH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (0.05)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0.21)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0.26)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0.31)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.40)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.46)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.52)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.59)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.75)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0.96)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1.12)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1.19)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.26)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.59)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.65)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1.82)
                             Primary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UE



 Traffic   WIM
Monitoring  AVC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Units in miles
  Sites       VOL

  Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                   630




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.53)
Underpass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maplewood Twp, Essex Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                             South Orange Twp, Essex Co
  Road
 Overpass                     -1.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.0
            Street Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Valley Street
              Jurisdiction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              County
                                                                                                                                                                    Begin Essex County 638 MP=0.00




     Functional Class                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Urban Minor Arterial
      Federal Aid Sys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NHS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STP
             Speed Limit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  35
    Number of Lanes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
              Med. Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  None
              Med. Width                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
               Pavement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              39                                                                                                                                                                                               29                                                                                                        39
                Shoulder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
       Traffic Volume                                                                                                                                                                                                17,107 (2003)
        Traffic Sta. ID                                                                                                                                                                                                3N5H705
         Structure No.
      Enlarged Views

                             SRI = 07000638__                                                                                                                                                                                      Date last inventoried: January 2001
                             PARKER ROAD (West to East)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mile Posts: 0.000 - 1.480




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n Te r
                                                          od




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Liberty Street




                                                                              ive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ga rf




                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                wo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ie ld P                                                                                                                                                                              Sheldon Ter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e et
                                                                                                                                  Ro a
                                                                            r Dr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Wa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E ls ma
                                                   South Collin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             m y S tr
                                                                            e




                                                                                                                                oo d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rich elieu Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Av
                                                                       To w
                                                                                             E ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hillside Ter
                                                                                                    rgr e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Newton Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ion
                                                                                                                           g ew
                                                                                                         en P




                                                                                                                                                           e

                                                                                                                                                                                d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                          n Ro a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A ca de
                                                                                                                                                             en u
                                                                                                                 l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ve n u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 v en u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Marsac Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Su
                                                                                                                          Rid




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e n Av
                                                                                                                                                      al A v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hillcrest Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ff o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ga rfie




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      mit A
                                                                                                                                                                                                  e
                                                                                                                                                                    Wa lto




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o nd A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ld Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lk A
                                                                                                                                                                                                 nu
                                                                                   Coll
                                                                                          inwo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B oy d
                                                                                                                                                 K en d




                                                                                                                                                                                       o od A ve
                                                                                               o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            665




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ve n
                                                                                                    dD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S um
                                                                                                         riv e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ric h m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Orch a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ue
 Secondary                                                                 577                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           605




                                                                                                                                                                                    Maple w
  Direction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             638




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rd A v e
                                                                                                                                Garth w
                                                                                                                                          ai te T er                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Parker Ro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         619
                                                                                     Cla re m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         en ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           La urel Av




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nu e
                                                                                                    ont Av                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ball Te r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Warren Road
  Primary                                                                                                    e nu e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gra nt P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ad
                                                                      E uc li
  Direction                                                                     d Av                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ct




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ell Ro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d
                                                                                    en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mo mm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T er
                                                                                             ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                k R oa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Midland Bou leva




                                                                                                                                                          d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Elberta Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Fran klin Ter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tre e t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rd




                                                                                                                                                      Ro a
                                                                     Dur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tiffany Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nesb it Te r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d Dri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D un n
                                                                           a nd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              wb roo
                                                                                  R oa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ect S
                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                         d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mosswood Ter




                                                                                                                                                dla n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         kw oo
                                                                                                                 Du
                                                                                                                   ra n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         603




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pros p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Me ad o
                                                                                                                                               Wo o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Elmwood Aven ue
                                 702218




                                                                                                                          dR
                                                                            Roos ev elt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B roo
                                                                                                                                oa                                                                                                                               Oakland Road                                                            Oa kland
                                                                                        Drive                                      d                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ro ad

               Pavement
                Shoulder
    Number of Lanes
             Speed Limit
            Street Name

 Interstate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                  287
   Route                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Maplewood Twp, Essex Co
                             Secondary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * Secondary direction milepost
US Route           22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         638                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  665




                                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.00) MAPLEWOOD
                   21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BURROUGHS WAY
 NJ Route




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IRVINGTON AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BRIARCLIFF CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COOLIDGE RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUDSON AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ACADEMY ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BALDWIN RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PEACHTREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FERNWOOD



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHERRY PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROSPECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RICHMOND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UNION AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ORCHARD
   County




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BURR RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOYDEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUMMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VALLEY
                  689




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.20)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.33)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.45)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.52)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.59)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.64)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.77)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (0.84)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (0.90)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (0.96)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1.03)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1.09)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1.15)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.25)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.30)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.35)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.41)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1.48)
    Road
Interchange
                    2
  Number
   Grade
 Separated
Interchange
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUCKINGHAM GARDENS
  Traffic
  Signal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.08) DUNNELL RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KENSINGTON TER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LANCASTER AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HIGHLAND AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NORF0LK AVE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SUFFOLK AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CLINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WARREN RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH TER
Toll Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                   AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AVENUE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AVENUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BALL PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROAD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ROAD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.28)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (0.65)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (0.71)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.94)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.99)
                             Primary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ON AV
 Traffic   WIM
Monitoring  AVC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Units in miles
  Sites       VOL

  Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   638                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            665
Underpass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Maplewood Twp, Essex Co
  Road
 Overpass                     -1.0                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.0
            Street Name                                                                                                                                                                                                 Parker Ave West                                                                                                                                                                        Parker Road
              Jurisdiction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Municipal
     Functional Class                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Urban Collector
                                                                                                                                                                                        Begin Parker Road MP=0.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              End Parker Road MP=1.48
      Federal Aid Sys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STP
             Speed Limit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOT POSTED
    Number of Lanes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
              Med. Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             None
              Med. Width                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
               Pavement                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31                                                                                                                                                                           36
                Shoulder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
       Traffic Volume
        Traffic Sta. ID
         Structure No.
      Enlarged Views

                             SRI = 07111794__                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Date last inventoried: January 2001
                             PROSPECT ST (West to East)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mile Posts: 0.000 - 1.970




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Oakview Avenue
                                                    Juliat Pl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 La ck awan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Park Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            North Crescent Drive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nue
                                                                                                                                                               630




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Oakland Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        na Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rd P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                638




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ave
                                                                                                      Te b e




                                                                                                                                                                           Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sloa n St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gira
                                                                                                                    Pl                     H il to n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     re       et




                                                                                                                                                                                rie




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A ve n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tre et
                                                                                                                                                       Aven




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a rd
                                                                             e




                                                                                                                                                                                     Pl
                                                                                                                                                           ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tree t
                                                                          Dr iv
                                                                                                    Carn
                                                                                                           e g ie




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Harv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           North Ter




                                                              D riv e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Th ird S
                                                                                                                       Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Taylor Pl
                                                   630                                                                                          Carn e




                                                                        li n i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fi fth S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               re et
                                                                                                                                                           g ie P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aca dem y Stre et                                                                                                                     638S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Street
                                                                                                                                                                  l




                                                                        Ga




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Beach Street
                                                                                                                                    a Pl
                                                           Marily n




                                                                                                                     y Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fo urth St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Parker Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fran klin Pl
                                                                                               §
                                                                                               ¨
                                                                                               ¦




                                                                                                                            A sto ri
                                                                                                             B urk le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pros pe ct St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Second
 Secondary                                                                                                                                      Oh io
                                                                                                                                                          S tree                      124                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ree t
  Direction                                                                                    78                                                                  t                                                                                 Bowd oin Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         510




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Plymouth Avenue

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Oakland Road
                                                                                                                                               In d ian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Burnett Ter
                                                                                                                                                          a S tre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P rospec
                                                                                                                                                                  e    t                                                                                          Yale Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t Ct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sum mit




                                                                                                                                                                                             Hi
  Primary                                                                                              633                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Aven ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Summit Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o ad
                                                                                                                                                                                               l to




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e et
                                                                                                                                      P erry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Garfie ld
                                                                                                                                                                                                 nA
  Direction                                                                                                                                    A ve n u




                                                                                                                                                                            In d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ge R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                h S tr
                                                                                                                                                       e                                                                                                   Oberlin Stree t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rich mon                                                                                                                                                        665




                                                                                                                                                                                                          ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d




                                                                                                                                                                                 i an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Av en ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ee t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Villa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o u rt
                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                     rd Te r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                      St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bald win Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e r S tr
                                                                                                                                                              Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tie ch




                                                                                                                                                                                        re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Burn




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       th F
                                                                                                                                                                nc o                                                                                                                                                                                        e tt T e                                                                                                                                                                                                       Suffo lk Aven                                                                                                                     n   or Av




                                                                                                                                                                                          et




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                      Edwa                                          rd                                                                                                                                                                                                 r                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ue                                                                                                                            e nu e




                                                                                  Le o na




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tu s c
                                                                                                                                                                           Av




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S ou
                                                                                                                                rd T e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cou rt
                                                                                                                                      r                                         en                                                                                         d                                                                                                                                                                                        Norfo lk Aven ue
                                 702221




                                                                                                                                                                                     ue                                                       ad                    R   oa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fa irv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ro                     ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Wa rd                                                          ie   w A ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ld                lg                                                                                                                             Oaklan d Ter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pl                                                          n    ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fie                 Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Burr Road

               Pavement
                Shoulder
    Number of Lanes
             Speed Limit
            Street Name

 Interstate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                  287
   Route




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.18)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Maplewood Twp, Essex Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South Orange Twp, Essex Co
                             Secondary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * Secondary direction milepost
US Route           22
                                                                                                                                                                                                             124                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             665           510
 NJ Route          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1.16) BEACH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROSPECT PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOMMER AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            SPRINGFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OAKLAND RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHERMAN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S CRESCENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JENNIFER LN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FRANKLIN PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROLAND AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MILLIGAN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SECOND ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOURTH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IRVINGTON


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S ORANGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HARVARD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OAKVIEW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THIRD ST
   County




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARK RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIFTH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TUSCAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARKER
                  689



                                                                                                                                                                                                               (0.00)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.16)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.26)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.41)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.48)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (0.59)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.69)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (0.79)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.89)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.98)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1.06)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1.22)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1.29)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1.35)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1.52)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1.63)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1.72)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1.78)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1.83)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1.88)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1.97)
    Road
Interchange
                    2
  Number
   Grade
 Separated
Interchange
  Traffic




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.76) PLYMOUTH AVE
  Signal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (0.80) OAKLAND RD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ELMWOOD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TICHE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MONTAGUE PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COURTER AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BURNETT TER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MADISON AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BOWD 9)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BALDWIN RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VILLAGE RD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KILBURN PL
Toll Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AVENUE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AVENUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1.41) VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROAD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.52)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.65)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.71)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.85)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1.28)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.61)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1.68)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.75)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NO R A
                             Primary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OIN S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GARFIELD PL
 Traffic   WIM
Monitoring  AVC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Units in miles
  Sites       VOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                             124                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             665           510
  Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.18)
Underpass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Maplewood Twp, Essex Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South Orange Twp, Essex Co
  Road
 Overpass                     -1.0                                                                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.0
            Street Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Prospect Street                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Prospect Ct

              Jurisdiction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Municipal
     Functional Class                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Urban Collector
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Begin Prospect St MP=0.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 End Prospect St MP=1.97
      Federal Aid Sys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STP
             Speed Limit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25
    Number of Lanes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
              Med. Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        None
              Med. Width                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
               Pavement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  36                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31                                                               36
                Shoulder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
       Traffic Volume
        Traffic Sta. ID
         Structure No.
      Enlarged Views

                             SRI = 07111797__                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Date last inventoried: January 2001
                             ELMWOOD AVE (West to East)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mile Posts: 0.000 - 1.510




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Wes t Civ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O rcha rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               665




                                                                                     Ro ad
                                       Cla re
                                                       mo n t
                                                                  Av e n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parker Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Li n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gra nt Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ric
                                                                        ue




                                                                                           d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                co
                                                                                                                       Jefferson Avenue




                                                                                Ridg ew oo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              h eli




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ic Sq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sherma n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ave nu e
                                                   Euc lid




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ln
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nue
                                                             A ve n u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ball Te r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B oy d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                eu
                                                                     e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Summit Ave
                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                                  h Te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ue
                                                                                                                                     d

                                                                                                                                                 n ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             605




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Chap man Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    en A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Midlan d Bo ule




                                                                                                                                    Roa
                                                   Dura                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         v en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Elberta Road
                                                          nd R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   var            d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A ve n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ok R o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 619                                           N ye




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Nort
                                                                                                                                             A ve
                                                                  oa d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Fran klin Ter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S tre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tiffa ny Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ve n
                                                                                                                                  d
                                                                               Du




                                                                                                                            dla n
                                                                                    ra n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                           o od
                                                   Roo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    U nio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o wb ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Nesb it Te
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mosswo od Ter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B all
                                                          s ev                                 dR




                                                                                                                           Wo o
 Secondary                                                       e lt D                             oa




                                                                                                                                          le w
                                                                        rive                           d                                                                           Oa kland Ro                                                                                             Elm wo od Av                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        603
  Direction                                                                                                                                                                  638               ad                                                       Oa kl a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               n d Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        enue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Me ad
                                                                                                                                      Ma p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                               tre e t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                               Park Ro ad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GSP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               so n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GSP




                                                                                                                                                                                                            pe c t
  Primary




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             u sta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      602




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Wil
  Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bec ke r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Es
                                                                                                                                                                                                           P ros




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Aug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s ex
                                                                                                                                                                             Oakview                                                               Burn ett Te                                          Oa kla




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e nu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ss




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nd T
                                                                                                                                                                                       Avenu e                                                                                                                     er                                                                                                                                                                                     Bro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pl
                                                                                                                                d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t Av
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                           oa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t Te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P ly m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             et
                                                                                                                       R                                                                                                                                                                                     o u th




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pa
                                                                                                                  ll                             Ba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        mo n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A v en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S tre
                                                                                                                                                      k er                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P ro
                                                                                                                ne




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n et




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             de n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C iv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s pe
                                                                                                           un                                                S tr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    124                                                                     ct A
                                 702223




                                                                                                                                                                    ee                                     Courte r St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B ur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C le re
                                                                                                       D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ven




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Boy
                                                                                                                                                                         t                                             reet




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    42 N
               Pavement
                Shoulder
    Number of Lanes
             Speed Limit
            Street Name

 Interstate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                  287
   Route




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1.01)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Maplewood Twp, Essex Co                                                                                                                                            Irvington Twp, Essex Co
                             Secondary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Secondary direction milepost
US Route           22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       605                                                                                 603




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MEADOW BROOK RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.69) FLEMING TER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.66) BORDEN TER
 NJ Route          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BROOKWOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MOSSWOOD TER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RICHMOND AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ORCHARD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORFOLK AVE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUFFOLK AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHERMAN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BOYD 8)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SPRIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUMMIT AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LANCASTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROSPECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FLORENCE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ELMWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HIGHLAND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHAPMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FRANKLIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SANFORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HEADLEY
   County
                  689




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1.51) D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.00)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.09)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.16)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.22)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.28)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.34)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.41)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.60)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (0.81)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.88)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (0.95)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1.05)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1.11)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.19)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1.27)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1.32)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1.37)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1.47)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.7
    Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EN AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GFIEL
Interchange
                    2
  Number




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
   Grade
 Separated
Interchange
  Traffic
  Signal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MEADOWBROOK PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OAKLAND TER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOYDEN AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BECKER TER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUMMIT AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ESSEX AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TERRACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TERRACE
Toll Plaza

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVENUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AVEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.10)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.32)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.47)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1.01)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TER
                             Primary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UE
 Traffic   WIM
Monitoring  AVC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Units in miles
  Sites       VOL

  Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 605                            603




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1.01)
Underpass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Maplewood Twp, Essex Co                                                                                                                                            Irvington Twp, Essex Co
  Road
 Overpass                     -1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.0
            Street Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Elmwood Avenue
              Jurisdiction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Municipal
     Functional Class                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Urban Collector
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Begin Elmwood Ave MP=0.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 End Elmwood Ave MP=1.51
      Federal Aid Sys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STP
             Speed Limit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25
    Number of Lanes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
              Med. Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      None
              Med. Width                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
               Pavement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           33
                Shoulder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
       Traffic Volume
        Traffic Sta. ID
         Structure No.
      Enlarged Views

                             SRI = 07111829__                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Date last inventoried: January 2001
Mile Posts: 0.000 - 2.000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Secondary direction milepost                                                                                      Units in miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.0




                                         Wes t End Road                                                              Wesley Ct                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WINTHROP AVE                                                                    WESLEY CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S Orange, Ess. Co.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S Orange, Ess. Co.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.98)
                                                                                                                                                              Leonox Pl                                                                                                                                                                                    THORNDEN                                                                         STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1.92)
                                                   Lenox Ter




                                                                                                                                         Lenox Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LENOX                                   AVENUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1.83)
                                                                                                                                       Audley Drive                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AUDLEY ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1.77)
                                                                       Ceda r La
                                                                                 ne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1.75)                                       (1.72) CEDAR LN                                   E CEDAR LN                                (1.75)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WASHINGTON PK
                                                   Owen Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1.69)                               ST LAWRENCE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1.67)
                                                                                                                                                                                     ue


                                                                                                                                                                                            Wa lton Ro
                                                                                                                                                                        Kend al Aven




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NEW ENGLAND RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.58)                                    DEHART RD
                                                                             Colonial Ter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1.55)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARCULARIUS TER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1.50)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOFFMAN ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COLLINWOOD RD                                       (1.43)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Av en
                                          Collinwood Drive
                                                                                                                                                                          rs on                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1.40)
                                                                                                                                                                   Je ff e                                                                                                                                                                                                               TENNIS LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1.35)                                  JEFFERSON AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Woodland Road


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Maplewood Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1.32)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CLAREMONT AVE
                                                                        t                             Av enue
                                                               Claremon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Maplewood Twp, Essex Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Maplewood Twp, Essex Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.28)                                        VIRGINIA RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUCLID AVE                                         (1.25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.22)
                                         Euc lid Ave nue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARILYN RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.18)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DURAND RD                               DURAND RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ridgewood Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1.13)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Urban Collector




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.12)
                                         Dura nd Road                                                                                                                             d
                                                                                                                                                                                          d R oa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Municipal




                                                                                                                                                                                                            D ura n                                                                                                                                                                       ROOSEVELT RD
                                                                                                    Roosevelt Drive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                None
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1.05)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WOODLAND RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.01)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ro




                                                  Hickory Road                                                                                                               Pl
                                                                                                                                                                   High land                                                                                                                                                                                                             HICKORY DR                                     HIGHLAND PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ell




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.93)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nn




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.92)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Du




                                                                                                                                                                                            eet




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Date last inventoried: January 2001
                                                                Curtiss Pl
                                                                                                                                                                               tr                                                                                                                                                                                                         CURTISS PL
                                                                                                                                                                          er S
                                                                                                                                                                B ak                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.87)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.83) BAKER ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIDGEWOOD TER
                                                               Ridgewood Terr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (0.82)                                      LENOX PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.80)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CLINTON AVE
                                                           Clinton Avenue                                                                                     Winthrop Pl                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.75)                             WINTHROP PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.73)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOUNTAIN AVE                                 MOUNTAIN AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.67)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Burnet Street




                                          Mountain Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.66)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Salter Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CARLETON CT
                                                                                                                                                     d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAPLE TER
                                                                                                                                      Rid gew ood Roa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.60)                                        (0.61)
                                  Maple Street
                                                                         Maple Ter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COTTAGE CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BERKELEY RD                                    (0.56)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0.53)
                                   Myrtle Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (0.46) BAILEY RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.45)                                                                                                                                   (0.45)
                                                                       Elm Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N AVE
                                  Pine Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GLE                                                    ROSEDALE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.45)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Millburn Twp, Essex Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Millburn Twp, Essex Co
                                                                                                                                             e nu e                     v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.37)
                                                                                                                                                                da le A
                                                                                                                                                                                          R os e                                                                                                                                                                                                  CYPRESS                                  STREET
                                    577




                                                                                                                                                         t           ee                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (0.32)
                                                                                                                                                             ss S tr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OAKDALE AVE
                                                                                                   ve n ue




                                                                                                                                                                                    C yp re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.27)
                                   Cedar Street                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORWOOD TER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUNSET DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.0
                                                                                            Glen A




                                                                                                                                                              r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (0.22)
                                                                                                                                                         d Te                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.20)
                                                                                                                                                                   w oo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25
                                   Linden Street                                                                                                                                    Nor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EDGEWOOD TER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.12)
                                  Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EVERGREEN TER
                                                                                                      Locust Ter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.06)
                                                                                                                                                                       630A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MILLBURN                                         AVENUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                630




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             630



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            630




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.00)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Begin Ridgewood Road MP=0.00
RIDGEWOOD ROAD (South to North)


                                                                                       ue




                                                                                                                                                                 Pl
                                                                          My rtle Aven




                                                                                                                                                               Mu ir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                638
                                                                                                                                         t
                                                                                                                            Rector Stree




                                                                                        Ro a d
                                                               in vie w
                                         Mo un ta
                                                                   u   e
                                                                                                                                                    ir




                                                                en
                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                   r iv



                                                                                                                                                 nC




                                                           Av
                                                                                                             D




                                                       g
                                                                                                      d



                                                                                                                                             Hara




                                                  in
                                                                                               oo




                                              m
                                         yo
                                                                                   w
                                                                                en




                                     W
                                                                          re
                                                                   G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Audrey Ter




                                                                                    r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SRI = 07121799__
                                                                                                                                                                               124




                                                                                        Te
                                                                                                 Iv y
                                              S tre e t
                                  Willo w
                                                                                            §
                                                                                            ¨
                                                                                            ¦                78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Secondary Direction                                                                                      Primary Direction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   702505




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Enlarged Views
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jurisdiction


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Federal Aid Sys




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Med. Type
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pavement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Shoulder




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Functional Class




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pavement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shoulder




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Structure No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Street Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Street Name
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Speed Limit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Speed Limit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Traffic Sta. ID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Number of Lanes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Number of Lanes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Traffic Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Med. Width
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   689
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     287

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AVC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIM
                                                                                                                          Secondary




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Interchange




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Interchange




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Underpass
                                                                                                                                                                 Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Separated
                                                                                                                           Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     US Route




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Overpass
                                                                                                                                                                 Primary




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Interstate




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NJ Route




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Toll Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     County




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Grade




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Signal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Traffic




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Traffic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Route




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Road


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sites
                             BOYDEN AVENUE (South to North)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mile Posts: 0.000 - 0.990
                                                                                                                                                                        Ma                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B urr                                      Suffolk Ave nue




                                 Oakwood Parkway
                                                                                                                                              My                             yS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o u gh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ne
                                                                                                                                                   rtle                           tre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s Wa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o ad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       w
                                                                                                                                                          S tr                          et                                                                                       Hu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ex R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ar
                                                                                                                                                                 ee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         et
                                                                                                                               619                                                                                                                                                 gh                                                                                                                                                                                           E ss




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ad
                                                                                                                                                                    t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nu e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               es




                                                                                           E ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Parker Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                         er
                                                                                                                                                                                                r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   th
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ave
                                                            W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             re
                                                                                                                                                                                              Te




                                                                                                   r et t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W




                                                                                                                                                                                                       ef




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rk w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             et                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ar
                                                                                                                                                                                         pa




                                                                                                                                                                                                     ha
                                                                     ke




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            d




                                                                                                            C ir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ca n
                                                                        r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  iff




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sc
                                                                            Av                                                                                                     m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                Ta                                                                                      or




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      va rd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ut
                                                                                 en                                                                                                                                                                                          d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              av




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tu s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          So
                                                                                      ue                                                                                                                                                                                         Ct




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 er




                                                   Ju lia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        yd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ly




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o u le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Va




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ld
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   fie
                                                                                  §




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bo
                                                                                  ¨
                                                                                  ¦




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A ve n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Un




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a Ro a
                                                     n Te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ne




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nd B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  io




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                           78                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ss
 Secondary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ja




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ball Te r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               124                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Av




                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o od
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Midla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E lb e rt
  Direction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   el                                                         b




                                                                                                                                                                             er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s                                                                            yS                                                                    Bo                                                                                                                                                                                      ol                                       ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on                                                                                                                                               yd                                                                                                                                                                                         id




                                                                                                                                                                         dT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tre




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Elm w
                                                                                                                                                                                           ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        en                                                                                                                                                                                         ge




                                                                                                                                                                                                          yn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tr                                Pl                                                                             et                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bria rcliff Ct                                                                                 Ed




                                                                                                                                                                        oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Av




                                                                                                                                                                                         en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Av




                                                                                                                                                                                                        el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 yC                                                                                                                                                                                 en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          en




                                                                                                                       T er




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ev
                                                                                                                                                                    tw



                                                                                                                                                                                      Av
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          en                    665




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                44 T
  Primary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t                                                                                                                                                                              ue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Te
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ue




                                                                                                                                                                  Os



                                                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r




                                                                                                                   Fl orence




                                                                                                                                                                                  id




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     h
  Direction




                                                                                                       th




                                                                                                                                                                               l ls




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Stre
                                                                                                                               Mano r Drive




                                                                                                                                                                             Hi
                                                                                      Rich ard Ter Nor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   y de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Co                                                     40                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B ro                                                                                                                nA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o li                                                        Th                                                                            Ca                                         601                                                                                         o kw                                                             Orchard Avenue                                    v   en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dg                                             Str                                                                       mp                                                                                   Me                                                                                                                                                                          ue          Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ee                                                                      to w                                                                             ad o                                                                    oo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           no r
                                 701607




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Str                                                         t                                                                nR                                                                             w   b ro                                                              d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          il d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dri                                                                                                                 Driv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ee                                                                                                                     oa                                          603                                     ok                                                                      ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t                                                                                                                   d                                                                                                 Pl                                                                                     Fernwo od Road                                                                         e


               Pavement
                Shoulder
    Number of Lanes
             Speed Limit
            Street Name

 Interstate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                  287
   Route                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Maplewood Twp, Essex Co
                             Secondary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Secondary direction milepost
US Route           22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.65) BOYDEN PKWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      619                                                                                                                                                                                                 124
 NJ Route          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.68) FIRE HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.97) FIRE HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STUYVESANT AVE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (0.02) EVELYN CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.99) ELMWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VAN NESS TER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NEWARK WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SPRIN 5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MENZEL AVE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HUGHES ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TUSCAN RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JACOBY ST
   County
                  689




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.13)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.23)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.28)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.33)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0.38)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (0.52)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (0.6
    Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GFIELD
Interchange
                    2
  Number
   Grade
 Separated
Interchange




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.93)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MEADOWBROOK PL
  Traffic
  Signal



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (0.22) GIFFORD CT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.31) HUGHES ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.27) JACOBY ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.11) TROY CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.00) 40TH ST



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HAUSMAN CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HARDING ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NELSON PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BROWN ST
Toll Plaza




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AVENUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIGNAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIGNAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (0.07)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.17)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.44)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.49)
                             Primary Direction




 Traffic   WIM
Monitoring  AVC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AVEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Units in miles
  Sites       VOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      619                                                                                                                                                                                                                           124




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UE
  Road
Underpass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Maplewood Twp, Essex Co
  Road
 Overpass                     -1.0                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.0
            Street Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Boyden Avenue
              Jurisdiction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Municipal
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Begin Boyden Avenue MP=0.00




     Functional Class                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Urban Collector




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      End Boyden Avenue MP=0.99
      Federal Aid Sys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STP
             Speed Limit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOT POSTED
    Number of Lanes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
              Med. Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              None
              Med. Width                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
               Pavement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                29
                Shoulder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
       Traffic Volume
        Traffic Sta. ID
         Structure No.
      Enlarged Views

                             SRI = 07091828__                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Date last inventoried: January 2001
                             BOYDEN AVENUE (South to North)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mile Posts: 0.000 - 0.530




                                                                                                                                      Tu s ca
                                                          Ta ra                     Bu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U niv                                                   Fie lding Ct
                                                                nto                   rn                                                                         Oakland Ter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ers it




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ld P
                                                                    Pl                     et                                                                                                               Essex Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lleg                               y
                                                                                                 tA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eP                                             Ct                                                                     Ray m                                                                                            Irv in
                                                                                                      ve                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Un                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   g Te




                                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ond




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                          Rade l Te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                           nu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ion                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Av en                                                                               r




                                                                                                                                          R oa d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A venu
                                                                                                              e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Av                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Midland Boulevard




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        en                Ed




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ve n
                                                    New                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ue                en
                                                          ark                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ick A
                                                              Wa y




                                                                                                                                                                              y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tu rrell



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Irving Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ct




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d A ven
                                                                                                                                                                                  a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Elmwood Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B al l Te




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                            ark w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       El




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wa rw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             la n d P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               g A ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ham ilto n
                                                                                                                                                                       en P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hey woo
                                    P ort                            Hu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                   er R                   gh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ar
                                                        o ad                   es                                                                     124




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Wo o d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S tirlin
                                                                                    Str




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                 B oy d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B oy d
 Secondary                                                                                e et                                                                                                                                                                                                                         en A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ve n
  Direction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      665                                 Manor                                                                        S ou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                510
                                                                                                                                                                               B oy d                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Drive                                                                           th C
                                                                                                                                                                                          en A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           en tr
                                                                                                                                                                                               ve n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hartfo rd Ct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wilden Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Reynolds Pl                                                          Stre                                                                                                         Cen tre




                                                                                                                                                          Le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    et                                                                                                                  S tr ee t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hillcrest Avenue
                                                                                                           Ja c




                                                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                                  ob y                                                                                                                    Orcha rd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Park e
  Primary                                                                                                                S tre                                                                                                                             Ave nu e




                                                                                                                                                            Ct
                                                                                                                                 et




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Street
  Direction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ro ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           h King man




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sin cla ir Te r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sout




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r R oa
                                                                                                                                                          44 T h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Elsman Ter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Came ron Ro
                                                                                                                                                                    Stre e                                                                                       Broo kw oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d Drive




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Unde rwo od
                                                                                                                                                                                      t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Finley
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Midland Pl
                                                                                                                                                                   601                                  Bec ker Ter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ad
                                                                                                                             C am p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Norman Road                                                                                                                                                     Holla nd Ro
                                 702217




                                                                                                                                                  to wn                                                                                                                            r
                                                                                           40 Th                                                          R o ad               42 Nd
                                                                                                                                                                                          S tree                                                    Fran klin Te                                                                                                     Eastern Parkway                                                                                                                                         Mo ntro se Str
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            eet
                                                                                                 S         tre e t                                                                                 t

               Pavement
                Shoulder
    Number of Lanes
             Speed Limit
            Street Name

 Interstate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                  287
   Route                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maplewood Twp, Essex Co
                             Secondary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Secondary direction milepost
US Route           22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        665
 NJ Route          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MIDLAND BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GARFIELD PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ALBERTA RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IRVINGTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ELMWOOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BALL TER
   County




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKER
                  689



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.00)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (0.08)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.15)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (0.22)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.30)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.38)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (0.53)
    Road
Interchange
                    2
  Number
   Grade
 Separated
Interchange
  Traffic
  Signal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MIDLAND BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HILLCREST RD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WILLIAM ST
Toll Plaza




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AVENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVENUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AVEN



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (0.10)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.43)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.48)
                             Primary Direction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UE




 Traffic   WIM
Monitoring  AVC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Units in miles
  Sites       VOL

  Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  665
Underpass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Maplewood Twp, Essex Co
  Road
 Overpass                     -1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.0
            Street Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Boyden Avenue
              Jurisdiction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Municipal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Begin Boyden Avenue MP=0.00




     Functional Class                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Urban Collector
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            End Boyden Avenue MP=0.53


      Federal Aid Sys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STP
             Speed Limit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25
    Number of Lanes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
              Med. Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    None
              Med. Width                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
               Pavement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     29
                Shoulder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
       Traffic Volume
        Traffic Sta. ID
         Structure No.
      Enlarged Views

                             SRI = 07111793__                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Date last inventoried: January 2001
