Martin     Street    Extension
Traffic Study ­ Final Report
Martin Street from 1st Avenue to Ken
Pratt Boulevard

Longmont, Colorado



SEH No. LONGM - 103289



May 15, 2009

Prepared By:
Short Elliott Hendrickson, Inc.
4840 Pearl East Circle, Suite 200W
Boulder, CO 80301
(303) 442-3130
Joe Henderson, PE, PTOE ­ Project Manager
Jon Larson, PE ­ Professional Engineer
Nick Samuelson, EI ­ Project Engineer
                                              Table of Contents
                                                                                                                        Page

    1.0     Introduction ................................................................................................... 1

    2.0     Project Description........................................................................................ 1
            2.1 New Roadways and Future Development ............................................... 1
            2.2 Roadways/Intersections in Study Area .................................................... 2

    3.0     Existing Conditions....................................................................................... 3
            3.1 Existing Traffic Data ................................................................................ 3
            3.2 Existing Capacity Analysis....................................................................... 3
            3.3 Existing Traffic Patterns........................................................................... 4

    4.0     Short-Term Analysis ..................................................................................... 5
            4.1 Short-Term Analysis Parameters............................................................. 5
            4.2 Short-Term Traffic Patterns ..................................................................... 5
            4.3 Impact to Martin Street North of 3rd Avenue ............................................ 5
            4.4 Short-Term Capacity Analysis ................................................................. 7
            4.5 Short-Term Roadway Improvements....................................................... 7

    5.0     Mid-Term (Year 2017) Background Analysis (Without LRT Station) ......... 8
            5.1 Mid-Term Analysis Parameters ............................................................... 8
            5.2 Mid-Term (Year 2017) Traffic Patterns .................................................... 8
            5.3 LRT Trip Generation Deduction............................................................... 9
            5.4 Mid-Term Background Traffic Volumes ................................................... 9
            5.5 Mid-Term Roadway Improvements.......................................................... 9
            5.6 Mid-Term Background Capacity Analysis .............................................. 10

    6.0     Light Rail Station and Transit Oriented Development Trip Generation .. 10
            6.1 Trip Distribution and Assignment........................................................... 11

    7.0     Mid-Term (Year 2017) Total Analysis (with LRT Station) ......................... 11
            7.1 Mid-Term (Year 2017) Total Traffic Volumes ........................................ 11
            7.2 Mid-Term (Year 2017) Total Capacity Analysis ..................................... 11

    8.0     Long-Term Background Analysis (Without Development) ...................... 12
            8.1 Long-Term Background Traffic Volumes ............................................... 12
Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                                            LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                                                 May 15, 2009
                                Table of Contents (Continued)

            8.2 Long-Term Roadway Improvements ..................................................... 12
            8.3 Long-Term (Year 2030) Background Capacity Analysis........................ 12

    9.0     Long-Term (Year 2030) Total Analysis (with the LRT Station + TOD) ..... 13
            9.1 Long-Term (Year 2030) Total Traffic Volumes ...................................... 13
            9.2 Long-Term (Year 2030)Total Roadway Improvements.......................... 13
            9.3 Long-Term (Year 2030) Total Traffic Capacity Analysis ........................ 13

    10.0 Conclusions................................................................................................. 14

    11.0 Recommendations ...................................................................................... 15



                                                   List of Tables
    Table 1 ­ Weekday Trip Generation DEDUCT Estimate ­ Longmont LRT Station
                  and Transit Oriented Development
    Table 2 ­ Weekday Trip Generation Estimate - Longmont LRT Station and Transit
                  Oriented Development




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                                ii
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                                       LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                                            May 15, 2009
                                Table of Contents (Continued)

                                                  List of Figures
    Figure 1 ­ Existing Traffic Volumes
    Figure 2 ­ Short-Term Reassigned Traffic Following the Construction of Martin
                  Street
    Figure 3 ­ Short-Term Traffic Volumes With the Extension of Martin Street
     Martin Street Traffic Diverters ­ Alternatives 1-5
    Figure 4 ­
    Figure 5 ­ Mid-Term Reassigned Traffic Volumes with the Boston Avenue Extension
    Figure 6 ­ Mid-Term (Year 2017) Background Traffic Volumes with the Boston
                   Avenue Extension
    Figure 7 ­ LRT Station + TOD Development Site Generated Traffic Volumes
    Figure 8 ­ Mid-Term (Year 2017) Total Traffic Volumes with the Boston Avenue
                   Extension
    Figure 9 ­ Long-Term (Year 2030) Background Traffic Volumes
    Figure 10 ­ Long-Term (Year 2030) Total Traffic Volumes
    Figure 11 ­ Main Street / Ken Pratt Parkway Improvements

                                              List of Appendices
    Appendix A             Traffic Count Data
    Appendix B             Level of Service Analysis Worksheets




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                          iii
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                            LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                 May 15, 2009
                                    Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­
                                    Final Report



                          1.0       Introduction
                                    Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc. (SEH) is pleased to provide this traffic
                                    study for the Martin Street Extension Project. The City of Longmont
                                    plans to construct two new roadway segments:
                                              Martin Street from 1st Avenue to Ken Pratt Boulevard /
                                              SH 119; and
                                              Boston Avenue from Price Road to Martin Street.
                                    A FasTracks light rail (LRT) station location has been identified at
                                    1st Avenue/Terry Street west of Main Street as the commuter rail
                                    station in Longmont. The FasTracks station will include a higher
                                    density Transit Oriented Development (TOD) that will be built
                                    surrounding the station. The study assumes build dates based on the
                                    best information available at this time. The actual build dates are
                                    uncertain and may be later than assumed in this study.
                                    Significant changes in travel patterns on existing roadways in the area
                                    are expected as a result of these roadway additions plus the planned
                                    rail station and TOD in the area.
                                    The purpose of this study is to identify impacts and recommend
                                    improvements or mitigation measures associated with the construction
                                    of Martin Street and Boston Avenue as well as the LRT station and
                                    TOD. This study examines existing intersection operations, and
                                    evaluates short-term (Year 2010), mid-term (Year 2017), and long-
                                    term (Year 2030) traffic conditions with the new roadways. Typical
                                    weekday peak periods of operation were analyzed and
                                    recommendations will be provided on roadway geometry and
                                    appropriate traffic control at new intersections as well as existing
                                    intersections.
                          2.0       Project Description
                           2.1      New Roadways and Future Development
                                    The Martin Street extension is a north-south arterial street that will be

Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                          1
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                         LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                              May 15, 2009
                                    constructed between 1st Avenue and Ken Pratt Boulevard. The study
                                    will investigate the appropriate cross-section, whether it will be a 3-
                                    lane or 5-lane section. It is anticipated that the roadway will include a
                                    continuous center left turn lane, on-street bike lanes, pedestrian
                                    sidewalk connections, right turn lanes at appropriate locations and a
                                    bridge over the St. Vrain River.
                                    The proposed Boston Avenue roadway segment is a planned
                                    continuation of Boston Avenue between Price Road and the new
                                    Martin Street roadway discussed above. This planned new Boston
                                    Avenue will provide a continuous east-west connection through
                                    Longmont. It is estimated that this road will be built around Year
                                    2011 in conjunction with the construction of the RTD FasTracks
                                    commuter railway extension to Longmont and rail station.
                                    The LRT station will be located at 1st Avenue/Terry Street west of
                                    Main Street as the commuter rail station in Longmont. The planned
                                    Boston Avenue extension will serve as the main access to the
                                    commuter rail station and associated TOD. The FasTracks schedule
                                    has the station being completed by 2014 with associated higher density
                                    TOD being established around the station area during that same time
                                    period. Actual build-out of the TOD is expected to occur in the long-
                                    term.
                           2.2      Roadways/Intersections in Study Area
                                    The project study area includes thirteen existing intersections that are
                                    potentially impacted by the Martin Street and Boston Avenue
                                    extensions, and the LRT station/TOD. These intersections include:
                                              1st Avenue / Main Street;
                                              2nd Avenue / Main Street;
                                              3rd Avenue / Main Street;
                                              1st Avenue / Martin Street;
                                              3rd Avenue / Martin Street;
                                              3rd Avenue / Lashley Street;
                                              Ken Pratt Boulevard / Main Street;
                                              Ken Pratt Boulevard / Martin Street;
                                              Boston Avenue / Hover Street;
                                              Boston Avenue / Sunset Street;
                                              Boston Avenue / Price Street;
                                              Boston Avenue / Pratt Parkway; and
                                              Boston Avenue / Main Street.
                                    Morning and evening peak period operations were evaluated for an
                                    average weekday. Traffic impacts were analyzed throughout the study
                                    area for existing, short-term (Year 2010), mid-term (Year 2017), and
                                    long-term (Year 2030) scenarios.
                                    In the short-term (Year 2010), it is assumed that only the Martin

Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                           2
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                         LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                              May 15, 2009
                                    Street connection will be completed. Thus, for this horizon, only the
                                    impacts of Martin Street will be evaluated.
                                    In the mid-term (Year 2017), it is assumed that Boston Avenue is
                                    completed to Martin Street and that the LRT station will be
                                    constructed.
                                    The long-term (Year 2030) scenario represents the final study horizon
                                    and assumes that redevelopment of the TOD will be complete.

                          3.0       Existing Conditions
                           3.1      Existing Traffic Data
                                    Traffic counts were collected by Navjoy Consulting Services during
                                    typical weekday operations in June 2008. Figure 1 shows existing
                                    traffic volumes, lane configurations, and control types for roadways
                                    and intersections in the study area as well as the prevailing traffic
                                    patterns during the morning and evening peak periods. Count data are
                                    included in Appendix A for reference.
                           3.2      Existing Capacity Analysis
                                    To evaluate the performance of the intersections within the study area,
                                    the Level of Service (LOS) was calculated using Synchro software.
                                    This software package utilizes criteria described in the Highway
                                    Capacity Manual1. LOS is a measure used to describe operational
                                    conditions at an intersection. LOS categories ranging from A to F are
                                    assigned based on the predicted delay in seconds per vehicle for the
                                    intersection as a whole and for individual turning movements. LOS A
                                    indicates very good operations, and LOS F indicates poor, congested
                                    operations. The operations will be evaluated based on the City of
                                    Longmont's desired overall operation, LOS D.
                                    The results of the intersection LOS calculations are summarized in
                                    Figure 1. Appendix B contains the level of service analysis
                                    worksheets for reference. The analysis indicates that the unsignalized
                                    intersections are operating well at overall LOS C or better during the
                                    morning and evening peak periods. The minor street movements at 3rd
                                    Avenue / Martin Street and Boston Avenue / Main Street exhibit
                                    extended delays. However, these are low volume movements and it is
                                    not uncommon for unsignalized approaches at major roadways to
                                    experience some delay.
                                    The signalized intersections are operating acceptably at intersection
                                    LOS D or better during the morning and evening peak periods.
                                    However, there are individual movements at certain intersections that
                                    operate below LOS D during the evening peak periods. The following


1
    Highway Capacity Manual - Special Report 209. Transportation Research Board. National Research Council. 2000.
Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                          3
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                             LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                                  May 15, 2009
                                    provides a summary of the intersection and movements that operate at
                                    diminished LOS and whether there are current capacity issues with
                                    these intersections.
                                    Ken Pratt Boulevard / Martin Street. The northbound left turn
                                    movement operates at LOS E during the evening peak period. The
                                    volume for this dual left turn configuration is 27 vehicles per hour.
                                    Due to the lighter traffic volumes on the side street, priority is given to
                                    the heavy through movements on Ken Pratt Boulevard. Therefore,
                                    there is not a capacity issue at this intersection.
                                    Ken Pratt Boulevard / Main Street. Though the intersection
                                    operates acceptably at overall LOS D during the evening peak period,
                                    the westbound approach, northbound left turn, and southbound left
                                    turn movements operate at LOS E or F. There are capacity issues with
                                    these movements during the evening peak of a typical day. Dual left
                                    turn lanes on the northbound and southbound approaches would create
                                    additional capacity. However, with heavy volumes utilizing the
                                    majority of the movements at this intersection, it seems that nothing
                                    short of adding an additional through lane on Ken Pratt Boulevard
                                    would completely alleviate the congestion. Improvement solutions
                                    will be analyzed later in the study as traffic volume patterns are
                                    determined as a result of the Martin Street and Boston Avenue
                                    extensions.
                           3.3      Existing Traffic Patterns
                                    The existing traffic volumes were studied to determine the prevailing
                                    traffic patterns motorists exhibited traveling through Longmont.
                                    Figure 1 illustrates the patterns of heavy traffic through the City during
                                    the morning and evening peak periods. The following summarizes
                                    where traffic volumes are currently heavy:
                                              3rd Avenue between Hover Street and SH 119;
                                              Boston Avenue/Pratt Street between 3rd Avenue and Hover
                                              Street;
                                              Ken Pratt Boulevard between Nelson Road and 3rd Avenue;
                                              Main Street from south of Ken Pratt Boulevard to north of 3rd
                                              Avenue; and
                                              1st Avenue from Main Street east to Martin Street and then
                                              north to 3rd Avenue.
                                     These patterns are expected to change due to the new Martin Street
                                     and Boston Avenue extensions and form the baseline for which the
                                     new traffic patterns will be developed once these roadways are
                                     constructed.




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                           4
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                           LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                                May 15, 2009
                          4.0       Short-Term Analysis
                           4.1      Short-Term Analysis Parameters
                                    In the short term it is assumed that only the Martin Street connection
                                    from 1st Avenue to Ken Pratt Boulevard will be completed. Therefore,
                                    this scenario evaluates only the intersection and traffic pattern impacts
                                    of Martin Street.
                                    No significant development in the area is expected in the short term.
                                    Minimal increases in background traffic are possible on some area
                                    roadways, however, it will not alter the conclusions regarding the
                                    impacts of the Martin Street extension.
                           4.2      Short-Term Traffic Patterns
                                    With the Martin Street extension, driver behavior is expected to
                                    change as traffic will be encouraged to divert from the more congested
                                    roadways in the area to the new roadway. Figure 2 illustrates the
                                    short-term traffic patterns and reassigned traffic volumes as a result of
                                    the construction of Martin Street. The origin/destination of the traffic
                                    in the roadway network is expected to remain unchanged, however, a
                                    proportion of the traffic currently utilizing 3rd Avenue to Boston
                                    Avenue, Main Street, and 1st Avenue to Pratt Parkway are expected to
                                    decrease. Additionally, traffic that was originally forced to travel
                                    eastbound on Ken Pratt Boulevard to 3rd Avenue and then backtrack to
                                    the region north of 3rd Avenue is provided a less circuitous route with
                                    Martin Street. Overall, the capacity of the intersections to the
                                    northwest bounded by Martin Street and Ken Pratt Boulevard are
                                    expected to increase as a result of the new Martin Street connection.
                                    Figure 3 illustrates the resultant short term traffic volumes with the
                                    extension of Martin Street.
                           4.3      Impact to Martin Street North of 3rd Avenue
                                    Due to the new traffic volumes that will utilize Martin Street, traffic
                                    volumes on Martin Street north of 3rd Avenue are expected to increase.
                                    Martin Street from 3rd Avenue to 9th Avenue is a collector street in a
                                    residential neighborhood where traffic volume increases are not
                                    desirable.
                                    The following summarizes traffic calming measures that would
                                    discourage cut-through traffic by either stopping unwanted traffic or
                                    creating a more circuitous route to get into the neighborhood. Figure 4
                                    illustrates each alternative.
                                    Alternative 1
                                    Install a northbound right turn bypass island to encourage the
                                    northbound right turn to the eastbound left turn movement (Figure 4).
                                             Advantages
                                                Effective in reducing approximately 50% of the
Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                          5
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                         LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                              May 15, 2009
                                                       additional northbound traffic volumes.
                                                       Traffic operations improvement at intersection.
                                             Disadvantages
                                                 Will likely require ROW and construction of
                                                   acceleration lane.
                                                 Right-turn bypass island alone would not eliminate the
                                                   need for a traffic signal.
                                             Estimated Cost = $30,000 - $50,000 + ROW costs
                                    Alternative 2
                                    Create a half closure on Martin Street between Rothrock Place and
                                    3rd Avenue to block travel in the northbound direction (Figure 4).
                                    Southbound travel is not impeded and two-way travel would resume
                                    north of Rothrock Place.
                                             Advantages
                                                Effective in reducing 100% northbound traffic volumes.
                                                Are able to maintain bicycle/pedestrian access.
                                             Disadvantages
                                                 Will force residents of the neighborhood adjacent to the
                                                   intersection to travel a circuitous route when entering
                                                   the neighborhood from 3rd Avenue.
                                                 Depending on the design, there is a possibility of wrong
                                                   way movements.
                                             Estimated Cost = $25,000 - 35,000
                                    Alternative 3
                                    Install a diagonal diverter or forced turn-island to direct northbound
                                    vehicles to turn at Rothrock Place.
                                             Advantages
                                                Effective in reducing 100% northbound traffic volumes
                                                  on Martin Street.
                                                Are able to maintain bicycle/pedestrian access.
                                             Disadvantages
                                                 Will force residents of the neighborhood adjacent to the
                                                   intersection to travel a circuitous route when entering
                                                   the neighborhood from 3rd Avenue.
                                                 Depending on the design, there is a possibility of wrong
                                                   way movements.
                                                 Would add approximately 70 vehicles in the evening
                                                   peak period to Rothrock Place and motorists would
                                                   likely turn left at Lashley Street in front of the already
                                                   heavy left turn movement at 3rd Avenue / Lashley
                                                   Street.

Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                              6
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                            LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                                 May 15, 2009
                                             Estimated Cost = $15,000-$20,000
                                    Alternatives 4 and 5
                                    Alternative 1 could be combined with Alternatives 2 and 3 to form a
                                    hybrid that would both discourage cut-through traffic and encourage
                                    the northbound right turn movement.
                                    In addition to the advantages and disadvantages described above, a
                                    signal would likely NOT be warranted with the hybrid alternatives
                           4.4      Short-Term Capacity Analysis
                                    The short-term traffic volumes with the Martin Street connection were
                                    analyzed to determine traffic operations and potential capacity
                                    improvements or constraints caused by the altered traffic patterns.
                                    This short-term traffic LOS scenario is summarized in Figure 3.
                                    Appendix B contains the level of service analysis worksheets for
                                    reference.
                                    With the Martin Street extension and improvements previously
                                    mentioned, the analysis indicates that the unsignalized intersections
                                    continue to operate well at overall LOS D or better during the morning
                                    and evening peak periods. The eastbound left turn movement at
                                    Boston Avenue / Main Street improves from LOS F to LOS C during
                                    the morning and evening peak periods.
                                    With the Martin Street extension and improvements previously
                                    mentioned, the analysis indicates that the signalized intersections
                                    continue to operate well at overall LOS D or better during the morning
                                    and evening peak periods except for Ken Pratt Boulevard / Martin
                                    Street which has the potential to operate at LOS E during the evening
                                    peak period. The additional traffic projected to utilize the eastbound
                                    left turn movement could experience capacity constraints. There is no
                                    impact, however, to the other individual movements at the intersection.
                                    It is expected that a signal timing correction would mitigate this issue.
                                    Additionally, the signalized 3rd Avenue / Martin Street and 1st
                                    Avenue / Martin Street are expected to operate well at LOS B or better
                                    during the morning and evening peak periods. Ken Pratt Boulevard
                                    / Main Street will also experience slightly improved intersection
                                    operations with significant improvement to the southbound left turn
                                    movement which exhibits LOS C from LOS F during the evening peak
                                    period.
                           4.5      Short-Term Roadway Improvements
                                    In the short-term, the following roadway improvements are proposed
                                    as a result of the changing citywide traffic patterns attributed to the
                                    Martin Street connection.



Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                          7
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                         LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                              May 15, 2009
                                    Martin Street between 3rd Avenue and Ken Pratt Boulevard
                                    Construct a three lane section from Ken Pratt Boulevard with a
                                    transition south of 3rd Avenue from the existing section to the three
                                    lanes.
                                    Retime Traffic Signals
                                    Adding the Martin Street link will alter the patterns in this part of the
                                    City enough that the City should consider retiming all of the signals in
                                    this area once Martin Street is opened and traffic patterns are
                                    established.
                                    3rd Avenue / Lashley Street
                                    Provide more time to the eastbound left turn movement at 3rd Avenue /
                                    Lashley Street.
                                    Martin Street / 1st Avenue
                                    Signalize the intersection when it meets warrants.
                                    Martin Street / 3rd Avenue
                                    Install a traffic signal to accommodate the additional traffic on the
                                    south leg of Martin Street.

                          5.0       Mid-Term (Year 2017)                   Background           Analysis
                                    (Without LRT Station)
                           5.1      Mid-Term Analysis Parameters
                                    The LRT station located adjacent to the railroad tracks between Main
                                    Street and Pratt Parkway is projected to be built-out by Year 2017 with
                                    redevelopment in the area beginning around the same time as well.
                                    Part of the development of the LRT station includes closing 1st Avenue
                                    (between Main Street and Pratt Parkway) to passenger vehicles. For
                                    the Mid-Term analysis, it was assumed that Boston Avenue is
                                    completed from Main Street to Martin Street and the connection is
                                    made across the railroad tracks at Pratt Street. This scenario analyzes
                                    traffic volume forecasts for the road segments noted in the Short Term
                                    scenario plus forecasts for Boston Avenue.
                           5.2      Mid-Term (Year 2017) Traffic Patterns
                                    With the Boston Avenue extension, driver behavior is, again, expected
                                    to change as traffic will be encouraged to divert from the more
                                    congested roadways in the area to the new roadway. Figure 5
                                    illustrates the mid-term traffic patterns and reassigned traffic volumes
                                    as a result of the construction of Boston Avenue.                    The
                                    origin/destination of the traffic in the roadway network is expected to
                                    remain unchanged, however, a proportion of the traffic from 3rd
                                    Avenue, Ken Pratt Boulevard, Main Street, and Martin Street would
                                    likely shift to Boston Avenue.           Overall, the capacity of the
                                    intersections in the study area should improve due to the increased
                                    east-west connectivity of Boston Avenue.

Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                          8
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                         LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                              May 15, 2009
                           5.3      LRT Trip Generation Deduction
                                    The amount of traffic generated by the area occupying the proposed
                                    location of LRT Station was estimated using trip generation rates
                                    contained in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip
                                    Generation manual2. Table 1 illustrates the land use, size and trip
                                    generation estimates for the area covering the LRT Station. The
                                    existing development is estimated to generate approximately 3,005
                                    trips on an average weekday, with 128 trips in the morning peak
                                    period and 251 trips in the evening peak period. This traffic was
                                    subtracted from the Year 2017 proposed network to develop the Year
                                    2017 background traffic volumes.
                           5.4      Mid-Term Background Traffic Volumes
                                    Background traffic volumes were developed for the Year 2017 based
                                    on existing traffic count data, projected future growth rates, and the
                                    estimated traffic patterns resulting from the Boston Avenue extension.
                                    Based on direction from the City, the future volumes were developed
                                    using a combination of the 2030 Longmont TransCAD model results
                                    and the CDOT website which provides future traffic volume estimates
                                    for Ken Pratt Boulevard (SH 119) and Main Street (SH 287). The
                                    background annual growth rate was calculated to be 1.5%. To arrive
                                    at the baseline volume in this scenario, the resultant traffic patterns
                                    from the new Martin Street and Boston Avenue extension were
                                    determined, then the trips estimated from the land use currently
                                    occupying the LRT station site were subtracted from the network. The
                                    mid-term background traffic volumes are illustrated in Figure 6.
                           5.5      Mid-Term Roadway Improvements
                                    In the mid-term, the following roadway improvements are proposed as
                                    a result of growth and the changing citywide traffic patterns attributed
                                    to the Martin Street and Boston Avenue connections.
                                    Boston Avenue between Main Street and Martin Street
                                    Construct a three lane roadway section from Main Street to Martin
                                    Street and across the railroad tracks at Price Road.
                                    Retime Traffic Signals
                                    Adding the new Boston Avenue link will alter the patterns in this part
                                    of the City enough that the City should consider retiming all of the
                                    signals in this area once Boston Avenue extension is opened and
                                    traffic patterns are established.
                                    Price Road / Boston Avenue
                                    Restripe Price Road as a two lane roadway with northbound and
                                    southbound stop controlled and with a single shared left turn, through,


2
         Trip Generation. Institute of Transportation Engineers. 7th Edition. 2003.
Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                             9
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                         LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                              May 15, 2009
                                    and right turn lane.
                                    Boston Avenue / Martin Street
                                    Signalize the intersection and configure the laneage to include an
                                    exclusive eastbound left turn lane and one shared eastbound left turn
                                    and right turn lane.
                                    Main Street / Boston Avenue
                                    Install a traffic signal to accommodate the additional traffic at this
                                    intersection. An exclusive eastbound right turn lane should be
                                    constructed.
                                    Boston Avenue / Pratt Parkway
                                    Install a traffic signal to accommodate the additional traffic at this
                                    intersection.
                           5.6      Mid-Term Background Capacity Analysis
                                    The mid-term traffic volumes with the Martin Street and Boston
                                    Avenue connections were analyzed to determine traffic operations and
                                    potential capacity improvements or constraints caused by the altered
                                    traffic patterns. The results of the intersection LOS calculations are
                                    summarized in Figure 6. Appendix B contains the level of service
                                    analysis worksheets for reference.
                                    With the Boston Avenue extension and mid-term improvements
                                    previously mentioned, the analysis indicates that acceptable
                                    intersection LOS D or better can be achieved at the study area
                                    intersection during the morning and evening peak periods. There is an
                                    improvement in the traffic operations at the intersections adjacent to
                                    the proposed LRT Station since the land use has been eliminated in
                                    this scenario.

                          6.0       Light  Rail  Station   and                  Transit       Oriented
                                    Development Trip Generation
                                    In order to determine the traffic impacts associated with the LRT
                                    Station (Year 2017) and associated TOD (Year 2030 build-out), the
                                    amount of traffic generated by the potential developments was
                                    estimated using trip generation rates contained in the Trip Generation
                                    manual.
                                    Trips generated by the TOD are based on the following land use
                                    estimates provided by the City.
                                             Residential units ­ 400 dwelling units
                                             Retail development ­ 785,000 square feet
                                             Office development ­ 349,000 square feet
                                             LRT Station ­ 1,000 parking spaces
                                    One objective of the new urbanism concept of transit oriented
                                    development is to effectively get people out of their cars. A recent
Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                             10
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                       LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                            May 15, 2009
                                    study of 17 TODs around the nation, including TODs in Denver,
                                    showed that TODs generated about half as many car trips as the
                                    standard of practice reference that is the ITE Trip Generation manual.
                                    Therefore, due to the mix of land uses, multi-use trips will occur from
                                    one land use to another within the TOD. Multi-use or multi-purpose
                                    trips do not affect the exterior site access points, and do not add any
                                    additional traffic volumes to the adjacent street network. To account
                                    for these internal trips, a conservative reduction factor of 35% was
                                    used.
                                    The estimated weekday trip generation for the Longmont LRT station
                                    and transit oriented development is contained in Table 2. The overall
                                    development is expected to generate approximately 25,932 trips during
                                    an average weekday with 992 trips in the morning peak period and
                                    2,386 trips in the evening peak period. It was assumed that the trips
                                    generated by the LRT station are approximately 10% of the total trips
                                    generated by the overall development. Therefore, the LRT station is
                                    accounted for in the conservative reduction factor.
                           6.1      Trip Distribution and Assignment
                                    Trip distribution percentages for the development were based on
                                    current traffic patterns in the vicinity of the site. The site-generated
                                    traffic was assigned to the roadway network based on the distribution.
                                    Figure 7 contains the estimated trip assignment for the Longmont LRT
                                    station and the associated TOD. As discussed previously, the trip
                                    generation assumptions for the LRT station comprise 10% of the total
                                    site generated traffic volumes.

                          7.0       Mid-Term (Year 2017) Total Analysis (with LRT
                                    Station)
                           7.1      Mid-Term (Year 2017) Total Traffic Volumes
                                    The LRT Station site generated traffic volumes were combined with
                                    the Year 2017 background volumes to generate the total future traffic
                                    volumes. The resulting Year 2017 total traffic volumes are presented
                                    in Figure 8.
                           7.2      Mid-Term (Year 2017) Total Capacity Analysis
                                    The Year 2017 Background + LRT Station site generated traffic
                                    volumes were analyzed to determine future operations and potential
                                    capacity constraints caused by the addition of site traffic from the
                                    development. This mid-term traffic LOS scenario is summarized in
                                    Figure 8. Appendix B contains the level of service analysis
                                    worksheets for reference. With the previously mentioned
                                    improvements for the mid-term background scenario, acceptable
                                    intersection LOS D or better can be achieved at the study area
                                    intersections during the morning and evening peak periods. There are

Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                         11
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                         LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                              May 15, 2009
                                    no major traffic operations impacts due to the replacement of the
                                    existing land use with the LRT station.
                          8.0       Long-Term    Background                   Analysis        (Without
                                    Development)
                           8.1      Long-Term Background Traffic Volumes
                                    Background traffic volumes were developed for the Year 2030 based
                                    on existing traffic count data, projected future growth rates, and the
                                    estimated traffic patterns resulting from the Martin Street and Boston
                                    Avenue extensions. Based on direction from the City, the future
                                    volumes were developed using a combination of the 2030 Longmont
                                    TransCAD model results and the CDOT website which provides future
                                    traffic volume estimates for Ken Pratt Boulevard (SH 119) and Main
                                    Street (SH 287). The background annual growth rate was calculated to
                                    be 1.5%. To arrive at the baseline volume in this scenario, the trips
                                    estimated from the land use currently occupying the LRT station and
                                    TOD sites contained in Table 1 were subtracted from the network.
                                    The long-term background traffic volumes are illustrated in Figure 9.
                           8.2      Long-Term Roadway Improvements
                                    In the long-term, the following additional roadway improvements are
                                    proposed to meet the long-term roadway needs as a result of growth
                                    and the changing citywide traffic patterns attributed to the Martin
                                    Street and Boston Avenue connections.
                                    Ken Pratt Parkway / Martin Street
                                    Construct a southbound free right turn lane.
                                    Boston Avenue / Main Street
                                    Construct an exclusive southbound right turn lane.
                                    Main Street / Ken Pratt Parkway
                                    Construct a dual northbound left turn lane.
                           8.3      Long-Term (Year 2030) Background Capacity Analysis
                                    The Year 2030 background traffic volumes were analyzed to
                                    determine future operations and potential capacity constraints caused
                                    by the addition of site traffic from the development. This long-term
                                    traffic LOS scenario is summarized in Figure 9. Appendix B contains
                                    the level of service analysis worksheets for reference. With the
                                    previously mentioned improvements for the long-term background
                                    scenario, acceptable intersection LOS D or better can be achieved at
                                    the study area intersections during the morning and evening peak
                                    periods.




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                         12
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                       LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                            May 15, 2009
                          9.0       Long-Term (Year 2030) Total Analysis (with the
                                    LRT Station + TOD)
                           9.1      Long-Term (Year 2030) Total Traffic Volumes
                                    The LRT station and TOD development site generated traffic volumes
                                    contained in Figure 7 were combined with the background volumes to
                                    generate the potential total future traffic volumes for this scenario.
                                    The resulting Year 2030 total traffic volumes are presented on
                                    Figure 10.
                           9.2      Long-Term (Year 2030)Total Roadway Improvements
                                    In the long-term total scenario, the following additional roadway
                                    improvements are proposed to meet the long-term roadway needs as a
                                    result of growth and the changing citywide traffic patterns attributed to
                                    the Martin Street / Boston Avenue connections as well as the LRT
                                    station and TOD site generated traffic volumes.
                                    Ken Pratt Parkway / Martin Street
                                    Construct an exclusive westbound right turn lane.
                                    Boston Avenue / Main Street
                                    Construct an exclusive westbound and northbound right turn lane. An
                                    additional eastbound through lane at the intersection could potentially
                                    be necessary to accommodate the heavy traffic volumes exiting the
                                    TOD site.
                                    Main Street / Ken Pratt Parkway
                                    Construct northbound and southbound dual left turn lanes and modify
                                    the phasing to be protected only. Construct an additional through lane
                                    in the eastbound and westbound directions as well as an eastbound
                                    right turn lane.
                                    3rd Avenue / Martin Street
                                    Construct a dual westbound left turn lane and a free northbound right
                                    turn lane.
                                    Pratt Parkway / Boston Avenue
                                    Construct exclusive right turn lanes on all four approaches. Construct
                                    dual westbound left turn lanes and exclusive northbound and
                                    southbound left turn lanes.
                                    Boston Avenue / Hover Street
                                    Construct dual southbound left turn lanes.
                           9.3      Long-Term (Year 2030) Total Traffic Capacity Analysis
                                    The Year 2030 Background + LRT Station + TOD site generated
                                    traffic volumes were analyzed to determine long-term future
                                    operations and potential capacity constraints caused by the addition of
                                    site traffic from the development. This long-term traffic LOS scenario
                                    is summarized in Figure 10. Appendix B contains the level of service
Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                          13
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                         LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                              May 15, 2009
                                    analysis worksheets for reference. With the previously mentioned
                                    improvements for the long-term total scenario, it is possible to achieve
                                    acceptable intersection LOS D or better at the study area intersections
                                    during the morning and evening peak periods. However, numerous
                                    individual movements at the major intersections in the study area
                                    including the intersections adjacent to the TOD site will be stressed
                                    due to the increased traffic from the redevelopment of the area.
                                    Therefore, based on the analysis of the future projected volumes, the
                                    proposed land use density for the TOD site represents the maximum
                                    development that the roadway network can sustain.

                        10.0        Conclusions
                                    Based on the analysis described in the sections above, the following
                                    conclusions have been drawn regarding the traffic impacts resulting
                                    from the Martin Street / Boston Avenue connections as well as the
                                    proposed LRT station and TOD site.
                                    Martin Street Connection (Short-Term)
                                       Based on the altered traffic patterns, the overall capacity of the
                                          intersections to the northwest bounded by Martin Street and
                                          Ken Pratt Boulevard are expected to increase.
                                             Operational improvements are expected throughout the
                                             roadway network especially as a result of the new Martin
                                             Street.
                                             Ken Pratt Boulevard / Main Street will also experience
                                             slightly improved intersection operations with significant
                                             improvement to the southbound left turn movement which is
                                             expected to improve to LOS C from LOS F during the evening
                                             peak period.
                                    Martin Street between 3rd Avenue and 9th Avenue
                                       Due to the new traffic volumes that will utilize Martin Street,
                                          traffic volumes on Martin Street north of 3rd Avenue are
                                          expected to increase.
                                             There are several traffic calming concepts previously discussed
                                             that can be implemented to discourage cut-through traffic.
                                    Boston Street Connect (Mid-Term w/LRT Station)
                                        A proportion of the traffic from 3rd Avenue, Ken Pratt
                                          Boulevard, Main Street, and Martin Street would likely shift
                                          from less desirable residential roadways to Boston Avenue.
                                             Overall, the capacity of the intersections in the study area will
                                             improve due to the increased east-west connectivity of Boston
                                             Avenue.
                                             There are no major traffic operations impacts from the

Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                           14
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                          LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                               May 15, 2009
                                             additional traffic generated by the LRT station since it will be
                                             replacing approximately the same amount of traffic as the
                                             existing trip generating land uses.
                                    Long-Term (w/LRT Station and TOD)
                                        Based upon the analysis of the future traffic volumes from the
                                          LRT station and TOD, it is possible to achieve intersection
                                          LOS D at the study area intersections with the proposed
                                          improvements.
                                             Numerous individual movements at the major intersections in
                                             the study area including the intersections adjacent to the TOD
                                             site will be stressed due to the increased traffic from the
                                             redevelopment of the area.
                                             Therefore, the proposed land use density for the TOD site
                                             represents the maximum development that the improved
                                             roadway network can sustain.
                        11.0        Recommendations
                                    It should be noted that the proposed improvements in the mid-term and
                                    long-term scenarios represent that which is necessary to accommodate
                                    the LRT station and TOD based on current future traffic volume
                                    forecasts and proposed land use densities. Therefore, the feasibility
                                    and need for these improvements should be reviewed at the time these
                                    developments come online and are more specifically defined.
                                    Figure 11 summarizes the recommended improvements at Main Street
                                    / Ken Pratt Parkway to achieve LOS D in the short-term and long-term
                                    timeframes. The following tables summarize the timeframe and
                                    improvements needed to support the Martin Street / Boston Avenue
                                    extensions as well as the LRT station and TOD site:




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                           15
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                          LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                               May 15, 2009
                                        Martin Street Extension (Short-Term) Improvements

                                  Martin Street Between Ken Pratt Boulevard and 3rd Avenue
                                                                                                   rd
                                  · Construct a three lane section from Ken Pratt Boulevard to 3 Avenue.

                                  Martin Street / 1st Avenue

                                  · Signalize the intersection when it meets warrants.

                                  Retime Traffic Signals

                                  · The City should consider retiming all of the signals in this area once Martin
                                  Street is opened and traffic patterns are established.

                                  3rd Avenue / Lashley Street

                                  · Provide more time to the eastbound left turn movement. This is a heavy
                                  movement that operates poorly and will further diminish with the revised traffic
                                  patterns.

                                  Martin Street / 3rd Avenue

                                  · Install a traffic signal to accommodate the additional traffic on the south leg
                                  of Martin Street and the trail connection.




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                            16
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                                 LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                                      May 15, 2009
                                        Boston Avenue Extension w/LRT Station (Mid-Term)
                                                         Improvements

                                  Martin Street Between Ken Pratt Boulevard and 3rd Avenue

                                  · Construct a five lane section from Ken Pratt Boulevard with a transition south
                                      rd
                                  of 3 Avenue from the existing to the five lanes.

                                  Boston Avenue between Main Street and Martin Street

                                  · Construct a three lane roadway section from Main Street to Martin Street and
                                  across the railroad tracks at Price Road.

                                  Main Street / 1st Avenue

                                  · During the preliminary engineering stages of the Boston Street project,
                                  consideration should be given to removing the Main Street / 1st Avenue traffic
                                  signal.

                                  Retime Traffic Signals

                                  · The City should consider retiming all of the traffic signals in this area once
                                  Boston Avenue is opened and traffic patterns are established.

                                  Ken Pratt Boulevard / Martin Street

                                  · Stripe the eastbound left turn lane as a dual left turn.
                                  · Modify the signal timing to provide more time to northbound and southbound
                                  traffic.

                                  Price Road / Boston Avenue

                                  · Restripe Price Road as a two lane roadway with northbound and southbound
                                  stop controlled.
                                  · Configure the intersection to include a single shared left turn, through, and
                                  right turn lane on the north and south approaches.

                                  Boston Avenue / Martin Street

                                  · Install a traffic signal.
                                  · Configure the intersection to include an exclusive eastbound left turn lane
                                  and one shared eastbound left turn plus right turn lane.

                                  Main Street / Boston Avenue

                                  · Install a traffic signal.
                                  · Configure the intersection to include an exclusive eastbound right turn lane.




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                                  17
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                              LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                                   May 15, 2009
                                                Long-Term Improvements (w/LRT & TOD)

                                  Ken Pratt Parkway / Martin Street

                                  · Construct an exclusive westbound right turn lane.
                                  · Construct a southbound free right turn lane.

                                  Boston Avenue / Main Street

                                  · Construct an exclusive westbound and northbound right turn lane.

                                  · An additional eastbound through lane at the intersection could potentially be
                                  necessary to accommodate the heavy traffic volumes exiting the TOD site.

                                  Main Street / Ken Pratt Parkway

                                  · Construct northbound and southbound dual left turn lanes and modify the
                                  phasing to protected only.
                                  · Construct an additional through lane in the eastbound and westbound
                                  directions as well as an eastbound right turn lane.

                                  3rd Avenue / Martin Street

                                  · Construct a dual westbound left turn lane.
                                  · Construct a free northbound right turn lane.

                                  Boston Avenue / Martin Street

                                  · Install a traffic signal.
                                  · Configure the intersection to include an exclusive eastbound left turn lane
                                  and one shared eastbound left turn plus right turn lane.

                                  Ken Pratt Parkway / Boston Avenue

                                  · Construct exclusive right turn lanes on all four approaches.
                                  · Construct dual westbound left turn lanes.
                                  · Construct exclusive northbound and southbound left turn lanes.

                                  Boston Avenue / Hover Street

                                  · Construct dual southbound left turn lanes.




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.                           18
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                               LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                                                    May 15, 2009
                                                                                        Tables
   Table 1 ­ Weekday Trip Generation DEDUCT Estimate ­ Longmont LRT Station and Transit Oriented
                                                                                  Development

Table 2 ­ Weekday Trip Generation Estimate - Longmont LRT Station and Transit Oriented Development




        Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.
        Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                        LONGM - 103289
        Longmont, Colorado                                                             May 15, 2009
 103289 - LONGM                                                                        Martin Street Extension Study




Table 1. Weekday Trip Generation DEDUCT Estimate - Longmont LRT Station

                                                            ITE                                    Average Daily Trips 1                         A.M. Peak Hour Trips 1                P.M. Peak Hour Trips 1
  Zone                               Land Use                       Size       Unit
                                                           Code                            Rate      Total        In         Out       Rate         Total      In         Out   Rate      Total      In         Out

                  Single Family Residential                210       7          DU         9.57        67         34         33        0.75           5         1          4    1.01        7         4          3
                  Light Industrial                         110      1.37       Acre        51.8        71         36         35        7.51           10        8          2    7.26        10        2          8
                  Specialty Retail                         814      1.48       TGLA       44.32        66         33         33            0          0         0          0    2.71        4         2          2
                  Home Improvement Superstore              862       94       TGSF         29.8      2,801      1,401       1,400          1.2       113       61         52    2.45       230      108         122




    LRT Station
                                                Subtotal                                             3,005      1,504      1,501                     128       70         58               251      116         135
Notes:
1. Trip Generation estimates are based on rates contained in Trip Generation, 7th Edition (Institute of Transportation Engineers, 2003).




 Trip Gen - Summary                                                                                                                                                                                       9/12/2008
 103289 - LONGM                                                                           Martin Street Extension Study




Table 2. Weekday Trip Generation Estimate - Longmont LRT Station and Transit Oriented Development

                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                               ITE                             Internal Trip             Average Daily Trips 1                    A.M. Peak Hour Trips 1                P.M. Peak Hour Trips
                Land Use                                Size        Unit
                                              Code                               Capture        Rate       Total        In        Out      Rate      Total      In         Out   Rate      Total      In           Out

General Office Building                        710       349       TGSF            0.65         11.01      2,498       1249       1249     1.55       352      310         42    1.49       338      281           57

Residential Condominium/Townhouse              230       400        DU             0.65          5.86      1,524       762         762     0.44       114       19         95    0.52       135      90            45

Shopping Center                                820       785       TGLA            0.65         42.94     21,910      10955      10955     1.03       526      321         205   3.75       1913     918           995

           GRAND TOTAL                                                                                   25,932      12,966      12,966               992      650         342             2,386    1,289      1,097
Notes:
1. Trip Generation estimates are based on rates contained in Trip Generation, 7th Edition (Institute of Transportation Engineers, 2003).




 Trip Gen - Summary.xls                                                                                                                                                                                     9/19/2008
                                                                                                  Figures
                                                                         Figure 1 ­ Existing Traffic Volumes

               Figure 2 ­ Short-Term Reassigned Traffic Following the Construction of Martin Street

                             Figure 3 ­ Short-Term Traffic Volumes With the Extension of Martin Street

                                                 Figure 4 ­ Martin Street Traffic Diverters ­ Alternatives 1-5

               Figure 5 ­ Mid-Term Reassigned Traffic Volumes with the Boston Avenue Extension

Figure 6 ­ Mid-Term (Year 2017) Background Traffic Volumes with the Boston Avenue Extension

                          Figure 7 ­ LRT Station + TOD Development Site Generated Traffic Volumes

        Figure 8 ­ Mid-Term (Year 2017) Total Traffic Volumes with the Boston Avenue Extension

                                          Figure 9 ­ Long-Term (Year 2030) Background Traffic Volumes

                                                 Figure 10 ­ Long-Term (Year 2030) Total Traffic Volumes

                                                Figure 11 ­ Main Street / Ken Pratt Parkway Improvements




 Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.
 Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                                          LONGM - 103289
 Longmont, Colorado                                                                               May 15, 2009
                                                        Appendix A
                                                       Traffic Count Data




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report       LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                            May 15, 2009
                                                                                 Cutting Edge
                                                                   A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                   1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                           Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                          (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                   File Name                 : 3RD&LASHLEY_AM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code                 :6
                                                                                                                                   Start Date                : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                   Page No                   :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- AM
                     LASHLEY ST                                             3RD AVE                       LASHLEY ST                                          3RD AVE
                      Southbound                                           Westbound                       Northbound                                         Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other              App. Total       Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other          App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other           App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM      14   11   49     0                           74     5    108     7    1     121       5     6    0     0               11          8    47   7     0                62         268
 07:15 AM      24   14   63     2                          103    13    105     5    0     123       2     4    0     0                6         13    53   6     0                72         304
 07:30 AM      25   17   67     0                          109     9    143     8    0     160       4     7    0     0               11         11    43   8     0                62         342
 07:45 AM      17   37   39     0                           93    11    167    13    0     191       8     6    0     0               14         18    72   5     0                95         393
     Total     80   79 218      2                          379    38    523    33    1     595      19   23     0     0               42         50 215    26     0               291        1307

 08:00 AM       9   20    46        1                       76     6    112     6      0       124       6       8    0     0         14           23       46        7    0       76         290
 08:15 AM       7   14    41        0                       62    15    111     9      0       135       8       4    1     0         13           19       48        5    0       72         282
 08:30 AM       9   13    36        1                       59     6    109     8      0       123       9       9    2     1         21           15       51        7    0       73         276
 08:45 AM       6   18    39        2                       65     7    113    10      1       131       7      12    0     0         19           14       55        4    0       73         288
     Total     31   65   162        4                      262    34    445    33      1       513      30      33    3     1         67           71      200       23    0      294        1136

Grand Total    111 144 380           6                     641    72 968        66     2      1108      49   56        3     1      109   121 415                     49   0      585        2443
 Apprch %     17.3 22.5 59.3       0.9                           6.5 87.4        6   0.2                45 51.4      2.8   0.9           20.7 70.9                   8.4   0
  Total %      4.5  5.9 15.6       0.2                26.2       2.9 39.6      2.7   0.1      45.4       2  2.3      0.1     0       4.5    5   17                     2   0     23.9


                                                                                             LASHLEY ST
                                                                                      Out        In     Total
                                                                                       243        641     884


                                                                                      380  144        111     6
                                                                                     Rght Thru       Left Other
                           1982


                                          121
                           Total




                                                                                                                                              Rght Thru
                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                66


                                                                                                                                                            529




                                                                                                North
                                                     415
                                         Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                           3RD AVE
                         3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                    968
                             585
                             In




                                                                                                                                                             1108
                                                                                                                                                              In




                                                                                     6/17/2008 07:00 AM
                                                 49




                                                                                                                                              Left Other




                                                                                     6/17/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                72
                           1397




                                                                                     AM
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                             0




                                                                                                                                                           1637
                                                                                                                                                       2




                                                                                     Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                       49   56    3     1


                                                                                       265        109     374
                                                                                      Out        In     Total
                                                                                             LASHLEY ST
                                                                                       Cutting Edge
                                                                         A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                         1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                 Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                   File Name                  : 3RD&LASHLEY_AM
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code                  :6
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                 : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                   Page No                    :2

                       LASHLEY ST                                                3RD AVE                                       LASHLEY ST                                     3RD AVE
                        Southbound                                               Westbound                                      Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                     App. Total     Left   Thru Rght Other       App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM     24      14     63     2      103    13 105   5 0                                         123           2        4     0      0          6           13       53       6      0         72         304
  07:30 AM     25      17     67     0      109     9 143   8 0                                         160           4        7     0      0         11           11       43        8     0         62         342
  07:45 AM     17      37     39     0       93    11 167  13 0                                         191           8        6     0      0         14           18       72        5     0         95          393
  08:00 AM       9     20     46     1       76     6 112   6 0                                         124           6        8     0      0         14           23       46        7     0        76         290
 Total Volume  75      88 215        3      381    39 527  32 0                                         598          20     25       0      0         45           65      214       26     0       305        1329
% App. Total   19.7   23.1   56.4       0.8                             6.5   88.1    5.4       0                   44.4   55.6       0      0                  21.3       70.2     8.5      0
       PHF     .750   .595   .802      .375                     .874   .750   .789   .615    .000       .783        .625   .781    .000   .000      .804        .707       .743    .813   .000      .803         .845

                                                                                                     LASHLEY ST
                                                                                              Out        In     Total
                                                                                               122        381     503


                                                                                              215   88              75     3
                                                                                             Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                               1067


                                                65
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                              Rght Thru
                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                                32


                                                                                                                                                                            289
                                                                                                         North
                                                          214
                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                           3RD AVE
                             3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                    527
                                 305
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                              In

                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                                               598
                                                      26




                                                                                                                                                              Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                39




                                                                                        AM
                                762
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                            887
                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                             Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                               20   25    0     0


                                                                                               153         45     198
                                                                                              Out        In     Total
                                                                                                     LASHLEY ST
                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                    File Name                  : 3RD&LASHLEY_AM
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code                  :6
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date                 : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                    Page No                    :3

                        LASHLEY ST                             3RD AVE                                                       LASHLEY ST                                         3RD AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                        Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                          Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other                            App. Total     Left             Other       App. Total     Left                 Other       App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u     t                                                          u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM     24      14     63      2     103        13 105      5    0                                123           2        4     0      0          6           13       53       6      0         72         304
  07:30 AM     25      17     67      0     109         9 143      8    0                                160           4        7     0      0         11           11       43        8     0         62         342
  07:45 AM     17      37     39      0        93      11 167     13    0                                191           8        6     0      0         14           18       72        5     0         95          393
  08:00 AM       9     20     46      1        76       6 112      6    0                                124           6        8     0      0         14           23       46        7     0        76         290
 Total Volume  75      88 215         3     381        39 527     32    0                                598          20     25       0      0         45           65      214       26     0       305        1329
 % App. Total   19.7   23.1   56.4       0.8                             6.5   88.1    5.4       0                   44.4   55.6       0      0                  21.3       70.2     8.5      0
        PHF     .750   .595   .802      .375                     .874   .750   .789   .615    .000       .783        .625   .781    .000   .000      .804        .707       .743    .813   .000      .803         .845

                                                                                                      LASHLEY ST
                                                                                               Out        In     Total
                                                                                                122        381     503


                                                                                               215   88              75     3
                                                                                              Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                1067


                                                 65
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                               Rght Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                 32


                                                                                                                                                                             289

                                                                                                          North
                                                           214
                                               Other Rght Thru
                              3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                            3RD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                     527
                                  305
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                                               598




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                       26




                                                                                                                                                               Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                 39




                                                                                         AM
                                 762
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                             887
                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                              Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                20   25    0     0


                                                                                                153         45     198
                                                                                               Out        In     Total
                                                                                                      LASHLEY ST
                                                                                 Cutting Edge
                                                                   A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                   1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                           Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                         (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                File Name                 : 3RD&LASHLEY_PM
                                                                                                                                Site Code                 :6
                                                                                                                                Start Date                : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                Page No                   :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- PM
                     LASHLEY ST                                             3RD AVE                       LASHLEY ST                                       3RD AVE
                      Southbound                                           Westbound                       Northbound                                      Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other              App. Total       Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other       App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM      13     8  35     0                           56     3     82    15    0     100       3   23     1     0           27          54 100     5     0                 159         342
 04:15 PM      11   15   33     0                           59     3     86    16    0     105       8   24     2     5           39          46    89   2     0                 137         340
 04:30 PM      13   12   26     0                           51     5     75    20    0     100       6   31     5     0           42          51    95   8     0                 154         347
 04:45 PM      12   22   27     0                           61    14     92    25    0     131      11   34     0     0           45          57    91   4     0                 152         389
     Total     49   57 121      0                          227    25    335    76    0     436      28 112      8     5          153         208 375    19     0                 602        1418

 05:00 PM      11   12    40        0                       63     4     69    22     0        95       7    44    2     0        53          74        132        8     0       214         425
 05:15 PM      13   17    28        0                       58     4     84    14     1       103       8    22    3     0        33          59         92        6     0       157         351
 05:30 PM      11   11    20        2                       44     7     60    24     0        91      10    24    1     0        35          51         77        3     1       132         302
 05:45 PM      14    5    40        1                       60     2     76    23     0       101       5    12    1     1        19          58        102        2     0       162         342
     Total     49   45   128        3                      225    17    289    83     1       390      30   102    7     1       140         242        403       19     1       665        1420

Grand Total    98 102 249            3                     452    42 624 159           1      826   58      214    15     6      293  450 778                      38     1    1267         2838
 Apprch %     21.7 22.6 55.1       0.7                           5.1 75.5 19.2       0.1          19.8       73   5.1     2          35.5 61.4                      3   0.1
  Total %      3.5  3.6  8.8       0.1                15.9       1.5   22  5.6         0     29.1    2      7.5   0.5   0.2     10.3 15.9 27.4                    1.3     0     44.6


                                                                                            LASHLEY ST
                                                                                     Out        In     Total
                                                                                      823        452    1275


                                                                                     249  102         98     3
                                                                                    Rght Thru       Left Other
                           2198


                                          450
                           Total




                                                                                                                                           Rght Thru
                                         Left




                                                                                                                                            159



                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                         891




                                                                                               North
                                                     778
                                         Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                        3RD AVE
                         3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                 624
                            1267
                             In




                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                           826




                                                                                    6/17/2008 04:00 PM
                                                 38




                                                                                                                                           Left Other




                                                                                    6/17/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                             42
                            931




                                                                                    PM
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                             1




                                                                                                                                                        1717
                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                    Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                      58  214   15     6


                                                                                      182        293     475
                                                                                     Out        In     Total
                                                                                            LASHLEY ST
                                                                                       Cutting Edge
                                                                         A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                         1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                 Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                  File Name                  : 3RD&LASHLEY_PM
                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                  :6
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date                 : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                  Page No                    :2

                       LASHLEY ST                                                3RD AVE                                       LASHLEY ST                                    3RD AVE
                        Southbound                                               Westbound                                      Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                     App. Total     Left   Thru Rght Other      App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM     13      12     26     0       51     5  75  20 0                                         100           6     31      5      0         42           51       95        8     0       154          347
  04:45 PM     12      22     27     0       61    14  92  25 0                                         131          11     34      0      0         45           57       91        4     0       152          389
  05:00 PM     11      12     40     0       63     4  69  22 0                                          95           7     44      2      0         53           74      132        8     0       214           425
  05:15 PM     13      17     28     0       58     4  84  14 1                                         103           8     22      3      0        33          59         92        6     0       157         351
 Total Volume  49      63 121        0      233    27 320  81 1                                         429          32    131     10      0       173         241        410       26     0       677        1512
% App. Total     21     27   51.9         0                             6.3   74.6   18.9     0.2                   18.5   75.7    5.8      0                  35.6       60.6     3.8      0
       PHF     .942   .716   .756      .000                     .925   .482   .870   .810    .250       .819        .727   .744   .500   .000      .816        .814       .777    .813   .000      .791         .889

                                                                                                     LASHLEY ST
                                                                                              Out        In     Total
                                                                                               453        233     686


                                                                                              121   63              49     0
                                                                                             Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                               1150


                                               241
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                               81


                                                                                                                                                                           469
                                                                                                         North
                                                          410
                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                          3RD AVE
                             3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                   320
                                 677
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                             In

                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                              429
                                                      26




                                                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                                               27




                                                                                        PM
                                473
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                           898
                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                             Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                               32  131   10     0


                                                                                               116        173     289
                                                                                              Out        In     Total
                                                                                                     LASHLEY ST
                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                   File Name                  : 3RD&LASHLEY_PM
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code                  :6
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                 : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                   Page No                    :3

                        LASHLEY ST                             3RD AVE                                                       LASHLEY ST                                        3RD AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                        Northbound                                      Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                          Thr Rgh                                        Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other                            App. Total     Left             Other      App. Total     Left                 Other       App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u     t                                                          u     t                                        u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM     13      12     26      0        51       5   75    20    0                                100           6     31      5      0         42           51       95        8     0       154          347
  04:45 PM     12      22     27      0        61      14   92    25    0                                131          11     34      0      0         45           57       91        4     0       152          389
  05:00 PM     11      12     40      0        63       4   69    22    0                                 95           7     44      2      0         53           74      132        8     0       214           425
  05:15 PM     13      17     28      0        58       4   84    14    1                                103           8     22      3      0        33          59         92        6     0       157         351
 Total Volume  49      63 121         0     233        27 320     81    1                                429          32    131     10      0       173         241        410       26     0       677        1512
 % App. Total     21     27   51.9         0                             6.3   74.6   18.9     0.2                   18.5   75.7    5.8      0                  35.6       60.6     3.8      0
        PHF     .942   .716   .756      .000                     .925   .482   .870   .810    .250       .819        .727   .744   .500   .000      .816        .814       .777    .813   .000      .791         .889

                                                                                                      LASHLEY ST
                                                                                               Out        In     Total
                                                                                                453        233     686


                                                                                               121   63              49     0
                                                                                              Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                1150


                                                241
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                              Rght Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                                81


                                                                                                                                                                            469

                                                                                                          North
                                                           410
                                               Other Rght Thru
                              3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                           3RD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                    320
                                  677
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                                              429




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                       26




                                                                                                                                                              Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                27




                                                                                         PM
                                 473
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                            898
                                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                              Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                32  131   10     0


                                                                                                116        173     289
                                                                                               Out        In     Total
                                                                                                      LASHLEY ST
                                                                                 Cutting Edge
                                                                   A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                   1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                           Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                          (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                    File Name                    : 3RD&MARTIN_AM
                                                                                                                                    Site Code                    :5
                                                                                                                                    Start Date                   : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                    Page No                      :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- AM
                     MARTIN ST                                              3RD AVE                        MARTIN ST                                        3RD AVE
                     Southbound                                            Westbound                       Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other              App. Total       Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other        App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       4     2   8     0                          14     53    128     3    0     184       3     1   11     0             15          3    44   5     0                  52         265
 07:15 AM       3     8  14     0                          25     51    134     3    0     188       2     3   13     0             18          2    63   2     0                  67         298
 07:30 AM       2     1  11     0                          14     46    155     3    0     204       3     0    4     0              7          4    66   6     0                  76         301
 07:45 AM       3     0  11     0                          14     47    177     2    0     226      14     2   12     0             28          6    71   2     1                  80         348
     Total     12   11   44     0                          67    197    594    11    0     802      22     6   40     0             68         15 244    15     1                 275        1212

 08:00 AM       3    0     6        0                       9     38    172     4      1      215      19       2    9    0        30             5       76       16     0        97         351
 08:15 AM       3    4     6        2                      15     25    133     3      0      161       5       3   20    1        29             4       54        9     0        67         272
 08:30 AM       1    2     8        0                      11     23    140     0      0      163      15       2    2    0        19             2       80       10     1        93         286
 08:45 AM       3    1     3        0                       7     19    142     1      0      162      14       3   10    0        27             5       60        9     0        74         270
     Total     10    7    23        2                      42    105    587     8      1      701      53      10   41    1       105            16      270       44     1       331        1179

Grand Total    22    18   67         2                     109  302 1181        19     1     1503    75       16   81      1      173           31 514              59     2      606        2391
 Apprch %     20.2 16.5 61.5       1.8                         20.1 78.6       1.3   0.1           43.4      9.2 46.8    0.6                   5.1 84.8            9.7   0.3
  Total %      0.9  0.8  2.8       0.1                     4.6 12.6 49.4       0.8     0      62.9  3.1      0.7  3.4      0       7.2         1.3 21.5            2.5   0.1     25.3


                                                                                             MARTIN ST
                                                                                      Out       In     Total
                                                                                        66       109     175


                                                                                       67   18        22     2
                                                                                     Rght Thru      Left Other
                           1929


                                           31
                           Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                              19 1181


                                                                                                                                                          617




                                                                                               North
                                                     514
                                         Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                         3RD AVE
                         3RD AVE

                             606
                             In




                                                                                                                                                           1503
                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                     6/17/2008 07:00 AM
                                                 59




                                                                                                                                            Left Other




                                                                                     6/17/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                             302
                           1323




                                                                                     AM
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                             2




                                                                                                                                                         2120
                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                     Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                       75   16   81     1


                                                                                       379       173     552
                                                                                      Out       In     Total
                                                                                             MARTIN ST
                                                                                       Cutting Edge
                                                                         A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                         1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                 Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                      File Name                    : 3RD&MARTIN_AM
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code                    :5
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date                   : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                      Page No                      :2

                        MARTIN ST                                                3RD AVE                                       MARTIN ST                                      3RD AVE
                        Southbound                                               Westbound                                     Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                     App. Total     Left   Thru Rght Other       App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       3       8    14     0       25    51 134   3 0                                         188           2        3    13      0         18              2     63       2      0         67         298
  07:30 AM       2       1    11     0       14    46 155   3 0                                         204           3        0     4      0          7              4     66       6      0         76         301
  07:45 AM       3       0    11     0       14    47 177   2 0                                         226          14        2    12      0         28              6     71       2      1         80         348
  08:00 AM       3       0      6    0        9    38 172   4 1                                         215          19        2     9      0         30            5       76       16     0         97          351
 Total Volume  11        9    42     0       62 182 638    12 1                                         833          38        7    38      0         83           17      276       26     1       320        1298
% App. Total   17.7   14.5   67.7         0                            21.8   76.6    1.4     0.1                   45.8    8.4    45.8      0                   5.3       86.2     8.1    0.3
       PHF     .917   .281   .750      .000                     .620   .892   .901   .750    .250       .921        .500   .583    .731   .000      .692        .708       .908    .406   .250      .825         .925

                                                                                                     MARTIN ST
                                                                                              Out       In     Total
                                                                                                36        62      98


                                                                                               42     9             11     0
                                                                                             Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                               1038


                                                17
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                              Rght Thru
                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                                12


                                                                                                                                                                            325
                                                                                                         North
                                                          276
                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                           3RD AVE
                             3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                    638
                                 320
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                              In

                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                                               833
                                                      26




                                                                                                                                                              Left Other
                                                                                                                                                               182




                                                                                        AM
                                718
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                           1158
                                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                             Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                               38     7  38     0


                                                                                               217        83     300
                                                                                              Out       In     Total
                                                                                                     MARTIN ST
                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                       File Name                    : 3RD&MARTIN_AM
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                    :5
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date                   : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                       Page No                      :3

                         MARTIN ST                             3RD AVE                                                        MARTIN ST                                         3RD AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                        Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                          Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other                            App. Total     Left             Other       App. Total     Left                 Other       App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u     t                                                          u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       3       8    14      0        25      51 134      3    0                                188           2        3    13      0         18              2     63       2      0         67         298
  07:30 AM       2       1    11      0        14      46 155      3    0                                204           3        0     4      0          7              4     66       6      0         76         301
  07:45 AM       3       0    11      0        14      47 177      2    0                                226          14        2    12      0         28              6     71       2      1         80         348
  08:00 AM       3       0      6     0           9    38 172      4    1                                215          19        2     9      0         30            5       76       16     0         97          351
 Total Volume  11        9    42      0        62 182 638         12    1                                833          38        7    38      0         83           17      276       26     1       320        1298
 % App. Total   17.7   14.5   67.7         0                            21.8   76.6    1.4     0.1                   45.8    8.4    45.8      0                   5.3       86.2     8.1    0.3
        PHF     .917   .281   .750      .000                     .620   .892   .901   .750    .250       .921        .500   .583    .731   .000      .692        .708       .908    .406   .250      .825         .925

                                                                                                      MARTIN ST
                                                                                               Out       In     Total
                                                                                                 36        62      98


                                                                                                42     9             11     0
                                                                                              Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                1038


                                                 17
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                               Rght Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                 12


                                                                                                                                                                             325

                                                                                                          North
                                                           276
                                               Other Rght Thru
                              3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                            3RD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                     638
                                  320
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                                               833




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                       26




                                                                                                                                                               Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                182




                                                                                         AM
                                 718
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                            1158
                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                              Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                38     7  38     0


                                                                                                217        83     300
                                                                                               Out       In     Total
                                                                                                      MARTIN ST
                                                                               Cutting Edge
                                                                 A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                 1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                         Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                        (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                   File Name                    : 3RD&MARTIN_PM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code                    :5
                                                                                                                                   Start Date                   : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                   Page No                      :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- PM
                     MARTIN ST                                            3RD AVE                        MARTIN ST                                         3RD AVE
                     Southbound                                          Westbound                       Northbound                                        Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other            App. Total       Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other         App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other           App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       2     3   9     0                        14     17    117     3    0     137       6     4   28     0             38          11 126     8     0               145         334
 04:15 PM       3     2  10     0                        15     11    123     2    1     137       5     7   21     0             33           8 127     9     0               144         329
 04:30 PM       4     2   8     0                        14     17    111    10    0     138       4     2   39     0             45          14 130     6     0               150         347
 04:45 PM       4     3   8     0                        15     20    129     5    0     154       7     6   40     0             53          11 154     2     0               167         389
     Total     13   10   35     0                        58     65    480    20    1     566      22   19 128       0            169          44 537    25     0               606        1399

 05:00 PM       7    2     7       0                     16     20    110     3      0      133       5       3    30    0        38            16      159        6    0      181         368
 05:15 PM       5    2     5       0                     12     13    113     1      0      127       4       5    27    2        38            16      134        3    0      153         330
 05:30 PM       4    4    11       0                     19     15     91     4      0      110       3       3    24    0        30            10       99        2    0      111         270
 05:45 PM      10    3     4       0                     17     18     98     6      0      122       3       5    36    0        44            11      110        4    0      125         308
     Total     26   11    27       0                     64     66    412    14      0      492      15      16   117    2       150            53      502       15    0      570        1276

Grand Total   39   21   62         0                     122  131 892         34     1     1058    37       35 245        2      319           97 1039             40   0    1176         2675
 Apprch %     32 17.2 50.8         0                         12.4 84.3       3.2   0.1           11.6       11 76.8     0.6                   8.2 88.4            3.4   0
  Total %     1.5 0.8  2.3         0                     4.6  4.9 33.3       1.3     0      39.6  1.4      1.3  9.2     0.1     11.9          3.6 38.8            1.5   0        44


                                                                                           MARTIN ST
                                                                                    Out       In     Total
                                                                                     166       122     288


                                                                                     62   21        39     0
                                                                                   Rght Thru      Left Other
                           2167


                                         97
                           Total




                                                                                                                                           Rght Thru
                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                        1323
                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                             34




                                                                                             North
                                               40 1039
                                       Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                        3RD AVE
                         3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                 892
                            1176
                             In




                                                                                                                                                          1058
                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                   6/17/2008 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                           Left Other




                                                                                   6/17/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                            131
                            991




                                                                                   PM
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                           0




                                                                                                                                                        2381
                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                   Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                     37   35  245     2


                                                                                     192       319     511
                                                                                    Out       In     Total
                                                                                           MARTIN ST
                                                                                       Cutting Edge
                                                                         A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                         1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                 Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                      File Name                    : 3RD&MARTIN_PM
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code                    :5
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date                   : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                      Page No                      :2

                        MARTIN ST                                                3RD AVE                                       MARTIN ST                                      3RD AVE
                        Southbound                                               Westbound                                     Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                     App. Total     Left   Thru Rght Other       App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       4       2      8    0       14    17 111  10 0                                         138           4        2    39      0         45           14      130        6     0       150          347
  04:45 PM       4       3      8    0       15    20 129   5 0                                         154           7        6    40      0         53           11      154        2     0       167           389
  05:00 PM       7       2      7    0       16    20 110   3 0                                         133           5      3      30      0        38            16      159        6     0       181         368
  05:15 PM       5       2      5    0       12    13 113   1 0                                         127           4      5      27      2        38            16      134        3     0       153         330
 Total Volume  20        9    28     0       57    70 463  19 0                                         552          20     16     136      2       174            57      577       17     0       651        1434
% App. Total   35.1   15.8   49.1         0                            12.7   83.9    3.4       0                   11.5    9.2    78.2    1.1                   8.8       88.6     2.6      0
       PHF     .714   .750   .875      .000                     .891   .875   .897   .475    .000       .896        .714   .667    .850   .250      .821        .891       .907    .708   .000      .899         .922

                                                                                                     MARTIN ST
                                                                                              Out       In     Total
                                                                                                92        57     149


                                                                                               28     9             20     0
                                                                                             Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                               1162


                                                57
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                              Rght Thru
                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                                19


                                                                                                                                                                            733
                                                                                                         North
                                                          577
                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                           3RD AVE
                             3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                    463
                                 651
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                              In

                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                               552
                                                      17




                                                                                                                                                              Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                70




                                                                                        PM
                                511
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                           1285
                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                             Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                               20   16  136     2


                                                                                                96       174     270
                                                                                              Out       In     Total
                                                                                                     MARTIN ST
                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                       File Name                    : 3RD&MARTIN_PM
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                    :5
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date                   : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                       Page No                      :3

                         MARTIN ST                             3RD AVE                                                        MARTIN ST                                         3RD AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                        Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                          Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other                            App. Total     Left             Other       App. Total     Left                 Other       App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u     t                                                          u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       4       2      8     0        14      17 111     10    0                                138           4        2    39      0         45           14      130        6     0       150          347
  04:45 PM       4       3      8     0        15      20 129      5    0                                154           7        6    40      0         53           11      154        2     0       167           389
  05:00 PM       7       2      7     0        16      20 110      3    0                                133           5      3      30      0        38            16      159        6     0       181         368
  05:15 PM       5       2      5     0        12      13 113      1    0                                127           4      5      27      2        38            16      134        3     0       153         330
 Total Volume  20        9    28      0        57      70 463     19    0                                552          20     16     136      2       174            57      577       17     0       651        1434
 % App. Total   35.1   15.8   49.1         0                            12.7   83.9    3.4       0                   11.5    9.2    78.2    1.1                   8.8       88.6     2.6      0
        PHF     .714   .750   .875      .000                     .891   .875   .897   .475    .000       .896        .714   .667    .850   .250      .821        .891       .907    .708   .000      .899         .922

                                                                                                      MARTIN ST
                                                                                               Out       In     Total
                                                                                                 92        57     149


                                                                                                28     9             20     0
                                                                                              Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                1162


                                                 57
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                               Rght Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                 19


                                                                                                                                                                             733

                                                                                                          North
                                                           577
                                               Other Rght Thru
                              3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                            3RD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                     463
                                  651
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                                               552




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                       17




                                                                                                                                                               Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                 70




                                                                                         PM
                                 511
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                            1285
                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                              Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                20   16  136     2


                                                                                                 96       174     270
                                                                                               Out       In     Total
                                                                                                      MARTIN ST
                                                                                                   Cutting Edge
                                                                                     A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                     1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                             Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                           (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                File Name                   : BOSTON&PRATT_AM
                                                                                                                                                Site Code                   : 12
                                                                                                                                                Start Date                  : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                Page No                     :1


                                                                                                    Groups Printed- AM
                     S PRATT PKWY                                                        BOSTON AVE                     S PRATT PKWY                                         BOSTON AVE
                       Southbound                                                         Westbound                        Northbound                                         Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right             Peds              App. Total        Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total     Left Thru Right                        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       7    103        7                   2                       119     0     0     5    0         5    1    33      3    0              37           1     0     1                           0          2         163
 07:15 AM       7     89        5                   0                       101     3     0     6    0         9    3    42      2    1              48           2     0     0                           0          2         160
 07:30 AM       4    106        5                   1                       116     6     0     4    0       10     2    32      1    1              36           0     1     1                           0          2         164
 07:45 AM       9    104        4                   1                       118     4     1     4    0         9    3    78      2    0              83           3     0     2                           0          5         215
      Total    27    402       21                   4                       454    13     1   19     0       33     9 185        8    2             204           6     1     4                           0         11         702

 08:00 AM       9    129        6                   1                       145     9     0      8      0       17       4    62     4     2         72                4         1                 1      0          6         240
 08:15 AM       6    101        3                   0                       110     8     0      6      0       14       4    50     7     1         62                0         0                 2      0          2         188
 08:30 AM       4     66        1                   0                        71     3     0      5      0        8       1    61     3     0         65                1         0                 1      0          2         146
 08:45 AM       6     88        3                   0                        97    11     0     11      0       22       5    59     3     1         68                0         1                 1      0          2         189
      Total    25    384       13                   1                       423    31     0     30      0       61      14   232    17     4        267                5         2                 5      0         12         763

Grand Total    52     786     34                     5                      877     44     1     49     0       94      23    417    25     6       471         11            3                9          0         23      1465
 Apprch %     5.9    89.6    3.9                   0.6                            46.8   1.1   52.1     0              4.9   88.5   5.3   1.3                 47.8           13             39.1          0
  Total %     3.5    53.7    2.3                   0.3                59.9           3   0.1    3.3     0      6.4     1.6   28.5   1.7   0.4      32.2        0.8          0.2              0.6          0       1.6


                                                                                                           S PRATT PKWY
                                                                                                       Out      In    Total
                                                                                                        477      877    1354


                                                                                                         34  786       52    5
                                                                                                      Right Thru     Left Peds
                                              81


                                                           11




                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                           Total




                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                 49


                                                                                                                                                                              80




                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                                                                                                BOSTON AVE
                                BOSTON AVE




                                                                        3
                                                         Peds Right Thru
                                       23
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                        1



                                                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                                                      6/18/2008 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                      94
                                                                  9




                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds




                                                                                                      6/18/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                44
                               58




                                                                                                      AM
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                            174
                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                      Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                        23  417    25    6


                                                                                                        839      471    1310
                                                                                                       Out      In    Total
                                                                                                           S PRATT PKWY
                                                                                                      Cutting Edge
                                                                                        A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                        1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                                Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                               (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                File Name                   : BOSTON&PRATT_AM
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code                   : 12
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date                  : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                                Page No                     :2

                       S PRATT PKWY                                                           BOSTON AVE                                 S PRATT PKWY                                         BOSTON AVE
                         Southbound                                                            Westbound                                    Northbound                                         Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                                                   App. Total    Left    Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total     Left Thru                    Right      Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM         4 106          5      1      116   6    0  4 0                                                        10         2     32       1       1           36              0          1                 1      0           2        164
  07:45 AM         9 104          4      1      118   4    1  4 0                                                         9         3     78       2       0           83              3          0                 2      0           5        215
  08:00 AM         9 129          6      1      145   9    0  8 0                                                        17         4     62       4       2         72                4          1                 1      0           6        240
  08:15 AM         6 101          3      0      110   8    0  6 0                                                        14         4     50       7       1         62                0          0                 2      0          2         188
 Total Volume    28 440          18      3      489  27    1 22 0                                                        50        13    222      14       4        253                7          2                 6      0         15         807
% App. Total     5.7     90     3.7                   0.6                               54      2     44       0                   5.1   87.7     5.5     1.6                   46.7        13.3                  40       0
        PHF    .778    .853   .750                  .750                       .843   .750   .250   .688    .000      .735       .813    .712   .500    .500        .762        .438        .500                .750    .000      .625          .841

                                                                                                                 S PRATT PKWY
                                                                                                             Out      In    Total
                                                                                                              251      489    740


                                                                                                               18  440            28    3
                                                                                                            Right Thru          Left Peds




                                                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                               47


                                                            7




                                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                            Total




                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                 22


                                                                                                                                                                                               44
                                                                                                                       North
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BOSTON AVE
                                 BOSTON AVE




                                                                           2
                                                            Peds Right Thru
                                        15
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                        1



                                                                                                                                                                                                     In

                                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                     6




                                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                27




                                                                                                       AM
                                32
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                               94
                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                              13  222    14    4


                                                                                                              473      253    726
                                                                                                             Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                 S PRATT PKWY
                                                                                                  Cutting Edge
                                                                                    A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                    1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                            Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                           (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                     File Name                   : BOSTON&PRATT_PM
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code                   : 12
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date                  : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                     Page No                     :1


                                                                                                    Groups Printed- PM
                     S PRATT PKWY                                                        BOSTON AVE                            S PRATT PKWY                                       BOSTON AVE
                       Southbound                                                         Westbound                               Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right             Peds              App. Total        Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left         Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total     Left Thru Right                        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       8     96           2                0                       106     3     0     9    0       12      3         136       8       1       148           1     1     2                           0          4       270
 04:15 PM      12    112           3                0                       127     5     0   12     0       17      0         138       4       2       144           3     0     2                           0          5       293
 04:30 PM       9    103           1                0                       113     1     0     7    0         8     0         156       5       0       161           1     0     6                           0          7       289
 04:45 PM       8    120           0                1                       129     3     0   14     0       17      1         129       6       1       137           1     0     0                           0          1       284
      Total    37    431           6                1                       475    12     0   42     0       54      4         559      23       4       590           6     1   10                            0         17      1136

 05:00 PM       8    147           1                1                       157     5     0     9      0          14       1   165       5       2       173                0         0                 3      0          3       347
 05:15 PM      12    148           1                1                       162     3     0     7      0          10       1   154       6       0       161                6         0                 0      0          6       339
 05:30 PM       8    118           0                1                       127     6     0    16      0          22       2   120       8       0       130                1         0                 0      0          1       280
 05:45 PM       5    116           2                1                       124     5     0    10      0          15       0   109       3       0       112                0         0                 0      0          0       251
      Total    33    529           4                4                       570    19     0    42      0          61       4   548      22       2       576                7         0                 3      0         10      1217

Grand Total    70     960     10                     5              1045           31     0    84      0        115        8   1107     45       6     1166          13            1               13          0         27      2353
 Apprch %     6.7    91.9      1                   0.5                             27     0    73      0                 0.7   94.9    3.9     0.5                 48.1          3.7             48.1          0
  Total %       3    40.8    0.4                   0.2                44.4        1.3     0   3.6      0         4.9     0.3     47    1.9     0.3      49.6        0.6            0              0.6          0       1.1


                                                                                                         S PRATT PKWY
                                                                                                     Out       In   Total
                                                                                                     1204     1045    2249


                                                                                                       10  960           70    5
                                                                                                    Right Thru         Left Peds
                                              45


                                                           13




                                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                           Total




                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                      84


                                                                                                                                                                                  116




                                                                                                                 North
                                                                                                                                                                                     BOSTON AVE
                                BOSTON AVE




                                                                        1
                                                         Peds Right Thru
                                       27
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                             0



                                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                                                         115




                                                                                                    6/18/2008 04:00 PM
                                                                 13




                                                                                                                                                                   Left Peds




                                                                                                    6/18/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                                     31
                               18




                                                                                                    PM
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                 231
                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                    Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                           8   1107    45    6


                                                                                                     1004     1166    2170
                                                                                                     Out       In   Total
                                                                                                         S PRATT PKWY
                                                                                                       Cutting Edge
                                                                                         A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                         1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                                 Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                                   (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                    File Name                   : BOSTON&PRATT_PM
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code                   : 12
                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date                  : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                                    Page No                     :2

                       S PRATT PKWY                                                           BOSTON AVE                                     S PRATT PKWY                                         BOSTON AVE
                         Southbound                                                            Westbound                                        Northbound                                         Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                                                       App. Total    Left    Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total     Left Thru                    Right      Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM         9 103          1      0      113   1    0  7 0                                                              8        0    156       5       0        161                1          0                 6      0           7        289
  04:45 PM         8 120          0      1      129   3    0 14 0                                                            17         1    129       6       1        137                1          0                 0      0          1         284
  05:00 PM         8 147          1      1      157   5    0  9 0                                                            14         1    165       5       2         173               0          0                 3      0          3         347
  05:15 PM       12     148       1      1      162   3    0  7 0                                                            10         1    154       6       0        161                6          0                 0      0          6       339
 Total Volume    37 518           3      3      561  12    0 37 0                                                            49         3    604      22       3        632                8          0                 9      0         17      1259
% App. Total     6.6   92.3     0.5                   0.5                             24.5      0   75.5       0                       0.5   95.6     3.5     0.5                   47.1           0                52.9       0
        PHF    .771    .875   .750                  .750                       .866   .600   .000   .661    .000          .721       .750    .915   .917    .375        .913        .333        .000                .375    .000      .607          .907

                                                                                                                 S PRATT PKWY
                                                                                                             Out      In    Total
                                                                                                              649      561    1210


                                                                                                                3  518                37    3
                                                                                                            Right Thru              Left Peds




                                                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                               23


                                                            8




                                                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                            Total




                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                                     37


                                                                                                                                                                                                   59
                                                                                                                           North
                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOSTON AVE
                                 BOSTON AVE




                                                                           0
                                                            Peds Right Thru
                                        17
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                                                         In

                                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                           49
                                                                     9




                                                                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                    12




                                                                                                       PM
                                  6
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 108
                                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                            Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                   3    604    22    3


                                                                                                              539      632    1171
                                                                                                             Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                 S PRATT PKWY
                                                                                            Cutting Edge
                                                                              A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                              1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                      Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                      (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                   File Name                 : BOSTON&PRICE_AM
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code                 : 11
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                   Page No                   :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- AM
                     PRICE RD                                                        BOSTON AVE                        PRICE RD                                               BOSTON AVE
                     Southbound                                                       Westbound                       Northbound                                               Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other                        App. Total        Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                 App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                    App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       0     2  37     0                                      39     0       0    0    0         0     0     3    0     0                        3        23     0   0     0                         23           65
 07:15 AM       0     0  44     0                                      44     0       0    0    0         0     1     0    0     0                        1        18     0   0     0                         18           63
 07:30 AM       0     0  55     0                                      55     0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0        32     0   0     0                         32           87
 07:45 AM       0     4  76     0                                      80     0       0    0    0         0     1     2    0     0                        3        43     0   1     0                         44          127
     Total      0     6 212     0                                     218     0       0    0    0         0     2     5    0     0                        7       116     0   1     0                        117          342

 08:00 AM       0    5    54                   0                       59     0      0     0      0           0              1       5   0    0          6         44            0               3    0       47          112
 08:15 AM       0    1    49                   0                       50     0      0     0      0           0              0       1   0    0          1         43            0               2    0       45           96
 08:30 AM       0    4    52                   0                       56     0      0     0      0           0              2       2   0    0          4         34            0               2    0       36           96
 08:45 AM       0    1    53                   0                       54     0      0     0      0           0              1       1   0    1          3         39            0               1    0       40           97
     Total      0   11   208                   0                      219     0      0     0      0           0              4       9   0    1         14        160            0               8    0      168          401

Grand Total     0    17 420                    0                      437     0      0     0      0           0    6   14                0     1        21  276                  0                9   0      285          743
 Apprch %       0   3.9 96.1                   0                              0      0     0      0             28.6 66.7                0   4.8           96.8                  0              3.2   0
  Total %       0   2.3 56.5                   0                58.8          0      0     0      0           0  0.8  1.9                0   0.1       2.8 37.1                  0              1.2   0     38.4


                                                                                                          PRICE RD
                                                                                                Out          In    Total
                                                                                                 290          437    727


                                                                                                420   17                 0       0
                                                                                               Rght Thru          Left       Other
                                        711


                                                    276
                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                Rght Thru
                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                            North
                                                                                                                                                                             BOSTON AVE
                            BOSTON AVE




                                                                  0
                                                   Other Rght Thru
                                 285
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                               6/18/2008 07:00 AM
                                                            9




                                                                                                                                                                Left



                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                               6/18/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                          426




                                                                                               AM
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                Other



                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                               Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                      6     14    0     1


                                                                                                  26           21     47
                                                                                                Out          In    Total
                                                                                                          PRICE RD
                                                                                                    Cutting Edge
                                                                                      A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                      1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                              Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                       File Name                 : BOSTON&PRICE_AM
                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                 : 11
                                                                                                                                                                       Start Date                : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                                       Page No                   :2

                        PRICE RD                                                            BOSTON AVE                                               PRICE RD                                     BOSTON AVE
                        Southbound                                                           Westbound                                               Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                                     App. Total     Left         Thru Rght Other       App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM       0       4    76     0       80     0  0   0  0                                                             0                1       2     0      0           3            43        0              1     0         44          127
  08:00 AM       0       5    54     0       59     0  0   0  0                                                             0                1       5     0      0           6            44        0              3     0         47         112
  08:15 AM       0       1    49     0       50     0  0   0  0                                                             0                0     1       0      0          1         43            0              2     0        45           96
  08:30 AM       0       4    52     0       56     0  0   0  0                                                             0                2     2       0      0          4         34            0              2     0        36           96
 Total Volume    0     14 231        0      245     0  0   0  0                                                             0                4    10       0      0         14        164            0              8     0       172          431
% App. Total      0    5.7   94.3                     0                                0      0      0       0                      28.6         71.4       0      0                  95.3          0            4.7       0
       PHF     .000   .700   .760                  .000                      .766   .000   .000   .000    .000          .000        .500         .500    .000   .000      .583        .932       .000           .667    .000      .915         .848

                                                                                                                      PRICE RD
                                                                                                           Out           In    Total
                                                                                                            174           245    419


                                                                                                           231   14                      0       0
                                                                                                          Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                            407


                                                           164
                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                    Rght Thru
                                                          Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                                                       0


                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BOSTON AVE
                                BOSTON AVE




                                                                         0
                                                          Other Rght Thru
                                     172
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                             0



                                                                                                                                                                                                     In

                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                   8




                                                                                                                                                                                    Left



                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                     AM
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                              235
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                    Other



                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                          Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                                 4     10    0     0


                                                                                                             22            14     36
                                                                                                           Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                      PRICE RD
                                                                                                     Cutting Edge
                                                                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                               Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                              (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                               File Name                 : BOSTON&PRICE_AM
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code                 : 11
                                                                                                                                                               Start Date                : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                               Page No                   :3

                          PRICE RD                          BOSTON AVE                                                                      PRICE RD                                      BOSTON AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                                     Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                                       Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left          Other                                          App. Total     Left             Other       App. Total     Left                 Other               App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u    t                                                                        u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM       0       4    76      0        80       0    0    0    0                                                  0         1        2     0      0           3          43          0              1     0         44          127
  08:00 AM       0       5    54      0        59       0    0    0    0                                                  0         1        5     0      0           6          44          0              3     0         47         112
  08:15 AM       0       1    49      0        50       0    0    0    0                                                  0         0      1       0      0          1         43            0              2     0        45           96
  08:30 AM       0       4    52      0        56       0    0    0    0                                                  0         2      2       0      0          4         34            0              2     0        36           96
 Total Volume    0     14 231         0     245         0    0    0    0                                                  0         4     10       0      0         14        164            0              8     0       172          431
 % App. Total      0    5.7   94.3                     0                                0      0      0       0                   28.6   71.4       0      0                  95.3          0            4.7       0
        PHF     .000   .700   .760                  .000                      .766   .000   .000   .000    .000       .000        .500   .500    .000   .000      .583        .932       .000           .667    .000      .915         .848

                                                                                                                    PRICE RD
                                                                                                            Out        In    Total
                                                                                                             174        245    419


                                                                                                            231   14                0    0
                                                                                                           Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                             407


                                                            164
                                            Total




                                                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                       North
                                 BOSTON AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                         BOSTON AVE
                                                                          0
                                                           Other Rght Thru
                                      172
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                                                             In



                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                    8




                                                                                                                                                                            Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                      AM
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                               235
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                           Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                               4  10    0     0


                                                                                                              22         14     36
                                                                                                            Out        In    Total
                                                                                                                    PRICE RD
                                                                                            Cutting Edge
                                                                              A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                              1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                      Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                      (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                              File Name                 : BOSTON&PRICE_PM
                                                                                                                                              Site Code                 : 11
                                                                                                                                              Start Date                : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                              Page No                   :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- PM
                     PRICE RD                                                        BOSTON AVE                        PRICE RD                                          BOSTON AVE
                     Southbound                                                       Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other                        App. Total        Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other            App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                    App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       0     3  36     0                                      39     0       0    0    0         0     1     4    0     0                  5         81     0   2     0                         83          127
 04:15 PM       0     2  37     0                                      39     0       0    0    0         0     2     7    0     0                  9         71     0   2     0                         73          121
 04:30 PM       0     0  52     0                                      52     0       0    0    0         0     0     2    0     0                  2         96     0   0     0                         96          150
 04:45 PM       0     0  54     0                                      54     0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0                  1        100     0   2     0                        102          157
     Total      0     5 179     0                                     184     0       0    0    0         0     3   14     0     0                 17        348     0   6     0                        354          555

 05:00 PM       0    2    60                   0                       62     0      0     0      0           0              0    5   0   0         5         92            0               4    0       96          163
 05:15 PM       0    1    47                   0                       48     0      0     0      0           0              0    3   0   0         3         90            0               0    0       90          141
 05:30 PM       0    2    38                   0                       40     0      0     0      0           0              0    2   0   0         2         83            0               0    0       83          125
 05:45 PM       0    0    21                   0                       21     0      0     0      0           0              0    1   0   0         1         19            0               0    0       19           41
     Total      0    5   166                   0                      171     0      0     0      0           0              0   11   0   0        11        284            0               4    0      288          470

Grand Total     0    10 345                    0                      355     0      0     0      0           0    3   25             0   0        28  632                  0               10   0      642        1025
 Apprch %       0   2.8 97.2                   0                              0      0     0      0             10.7 89.3             0   0           98.4                  0              1.6   0
  Total %       0     1 33.7                   0                34.6          0      0     0      0           0  0.3  2.4             0   0       2.7 61.7                  0                1   0     62.6


                                                                                                          PRICE RD
                                                                                                Out          In    Total
                                                                                                 657          355   1012


                                                                                                345   10                 0       0
                                                                                               Rght Thru          Left       Other
                                        990


                                                    632
                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                           Rght Thru
                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                            North
                                                                                                                                                                        BOSTON AVE
                            BOSTON AVE




                                                                  0
                                                   Other Rght Thru
                                 642
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                               6/18/2008 04:00 PM
                                                           10




                                                                                                                                                           Left



                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                               6/18/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                          348




                                                                                               PM
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                           Other



                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                               Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                      3     25    0     0


                                                                                                  20           28     48
                                                                                                Out          In    Total
                                                                                                          PRICE RD
                                                                                                    Cutting Edge
                                                                                      A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                      1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                              Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                           File Name                 : BOSTON&PRICE_PM
                                                                                                                                                                           Site Code                 : 11
                                                                                                                                                                           Start Date                : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                                           Page No                   :2

                        PRICE RD                                                            BOSTON AVE                                                   PRICE RD                                     BOSTON AVE
                        Southbound                                                           Westbound                                                   Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                                         App. Total     Left         Thru Rght Other       App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       0       0    52     0       52     0  0   0  0                                                                 0                0       2     0      0           2            96        0              0     0         96         150
  04:45 PM       0       0    54     0       54     0  0   0  0                                                                 0                0       1     0      0           1       100            0              2     0       102          157
  05:00 PM       0       2    60     0       62     0  0   0  0                                                                 0                0       5     0      0           5        92            0              4     0        96           163
  05:15 PM       0       1    47     0       48     0  0   0  0                                                                 0                0     3       0      0          3         90            0              0     0        90          141
 Total Volume    0       3 213       0      216     0  0   0  0                                                                 0                0    11       0      0         11        378            0              6     0       384          611
% App. Total      0    1.4   98.6                     0                                0      0      0       0                             0          100       0      0                  98.4          0            1.6       0
       PHF     .000   .375   .888                  .000                      .871   .000   .000   .000    .000              .000        .000         .550    .000   .000      .550        .945       .000           .375    .000      .941         .937

                                                                                                                          PRICE RD
                                                                                                           Out               In    Total
                                                                                                            389               216    605


                                                                                                           213     3                         0       0
                                                                                                          Rght Thru                   Left       Other




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                            597


                                                           378
                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                        Rght Thru
                                                          Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                                                           0


                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                             North
                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOSTON AVE
                                BOSTON AVE




                                                                         0
                                                          Other Rght Thru
                                     384
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                                                                         In

                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                   6




                                                                                                                                                                                        Left



                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                     PM
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                              213
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                        Other



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                          Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                                 0         11    0     0


                                                                                                                     9         11     20
                                                                                                           Out               In    Total
                                                                                                                          PRICE RD
                                                                                                     Cutting Edge
                                                                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                               Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                              (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                  File Name                 : BOSTON&PRICE_PM
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                 : 11
                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date                : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                                  Page No                   :3

                          PRICE RD                          BOSTON AVE                                                                         PRICE RD                                      BOSTON AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                                        Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                                          Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left          Other                                             App. Total     Left             Other       App. Total     Left                 Other               App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u    t                                                                           u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       0       0    52      0        52       0    0    0    0                                                     0         0        2     0      0           2          96          0              0     0         96         150
  04:45 PM       0       0    54      0        54       0    0    0    0                                                     0         0        1     0      0           1       100            0              2     0       102          157
  05:00 PM       0       2    60      0        62       0    0    0    0                                                     0         0        5     0      0           5        92            0              4     0        96           163
  05:15 PM       0       1    47      0        48       0    0    0    0                                                     0         0      3       0      0          3         90            0              0     0        90          141
 Total Volume    0       3 213        0     216         0    0    0    0                                                     0         0     11       0      0         11        378            0              6     0       384          611
 % App. Total      0    1.4   98.6                     0                                0      0      0       0                         0    100       0      0                  98.4          0            1.6       0
        PHF     .000   .375   .888                  .000                      .871   .000   .000   .000    .000          .000        .000   .550    .000   .000      .550        .945       .000           .375    .000      .941         .937

                                                                                                                       PRICE RD
                                                                                                            Out           In    Total
                                                                                                             389           216    605


                                                                                                            213     3                  0    0
                                                                                                           Rght Thru               Left Other




                                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                             597


                                                            378
                                            Total




                                                                                                                                                                               Rght Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                          North
                                 BOSTON AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                            BOSTON AVE
                                                                          0
                                                           Other Rght Thru
                                      384
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                                                                                In



                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                    6




                                                                                                                                                                               Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                      PM
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                               213
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                           Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                               0  11    0     0


                                                                                                                  9         11     20
                                                                                                            Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                       PRICE RD
                                                                               Cutting Edge
                                                                 A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                 1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                         Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                       (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                       File Name                     : HOVER&BOSTON_AM
                                                                                                                       Site Code                     :9
                                                                                                                       Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                       Page No                       :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- AM
                      HOVER ST                                             BOSTON                        HOVER ST                                       BOSTON
                      Southbound                                         Westbound                       Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other                App. Total   Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other      App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other          App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM      27 462     1     0                     490       10       8    1    0        19     2 126      7     0         135           2     9   1     0                12        656
 07:15 AM      26 455     3     0                     484       16     12     7    0        35     1 145     14     0         160           1    10   0     0                11        690
 07:30 AM      35 464     3     1                     503       26     14    10    0        50     1 163     18     0         182           1    12   1     0                14        749
 07:45 AM      26 447     8     2                     483       22     15     6    0        43     2 151     17     0         170           1    13   3     0                17        713
     Total    114 1828   15     3                    1960       74     49    24    0     147       6 585     56     0         647           5    44   5     0                54       2808

 08:00 AM      27   425      9        0               461       30     10     8     1       49         1   133    6    0      140               1     12      1     1        15        665
 08:15 AM      13   379      7        0               399       17     12     7     0       36         1   151    8    0      160               3     11      0     0        14        609
 08:30 AM      12   379      2        1               394       22     10     9     0       41         1   168   14    0      183               3      8      3     0        14        632
 08:45 AM      16   386      1        1               404       23     11     5     0       39         1   163   11    0      175               2      7      2     0        11        629
     Total     68   1569    19        2              1658       92     43    29     1      165         4   615   39    0      658               9     38      6     1        54       2535

Grand Total   182 3397      34         5             3618     166   92       53      1     312       10 1200      95   0    1305            14   82   11            1      108        5343
 Apprch %       5 93.9     0.9       0.1                     53.2 29.5       17    0.3              0.8   92     7.3   0                    13 75.9 10.2          0.9
  Total %     3.4 63.6     0.6       0.1                67.7  3.1  1.7        1      0      5.8     0.2 22.5     1.8   0     24.4          0.3  1.5  0.2            0          2


                                                                                          HOVER ST
                                                                                   Out       In    Total
                                                                                   1267     3618    4885


                                                                                    34 3397        182     5
                                                                                  Rght Thru       Left Other
                              244


                                             14
                             Total




                                                                                                                                        Rght Thru
                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                          53


                                                                                                                                                      359




                                                                                            North
                                                        82
                                           Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                     BOSTON
                           BOSTON

                               108




                                                                                                                                               92
                              In




                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                        312




                                                                                  6/18/2008 07:00 AM
                                                   11




                                                                                                                                        Left Other




                                                                                  6/18/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                         166
                              136




                                                                                  AM
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                               1




                                                                                                                                                      671
                                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                  Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                    10 1200   95     0


                                                                                   3574     1305    4879
                                                                                   Out       In    Total
                                                                                          HOVER ST
                                                                                       Cutting Edge
                                                                         A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                         1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                 Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                            File Name                     : HOVER&BOSTON_AM
                                                                                                                                            Site Code                     :9
                                                                                                                                            Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                            Page No                       :2


                        HOVER ST                                                 BOSTON                                        HOVER ST                                      BOSTON
                        Southbound                                               Westbound                                     Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                     App. Total     Left   Thru Rght Other      App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other            App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM     26 455           3    0      484    16 12    7 0                                           35          1    145     14       0      160               1     10       0     0         11         690
  07:30 AM     35 464           3    1      503    26 14   10 0                                           50          1    163     18       0      182               1     12       1     0         14          749
  07:45 AM     26 447           8    2      483    22 15    6 0                                          43           2    151     17       0      170               1     13       3     0         17        713
  08:00 AM     27 425           9    0      461    30 10    8 1                                          49           1    133      6       0      140               1     12       1     1         15        665
 Total Volume 114 1791        23     3 1931        94 51   31 1                                         177           5    592     55       0      652               4     47       5     1         57       2817
% App. Total    5.9   92.7    1.2       0.2                            53.1   28.8   17.5     0.6                    0.8   90.8    8.4      0                         7   82.5     8.8   1.8
       PHF     .814   .965   .639      .375                     .960   .783   .850   .775    .250       .885        .625   .908   .764   .000      .896      1.000


                                                                                                     HOVER ST
                                                                                              Out       In    Total
                                                                                               627     1931    2558


                                                                                               23 1791             114     3
                                                                                             Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                                136


                                                  4
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                               31


                                                                                                                                                                           216



                                                                                                         North
                                                           47
                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                          BOSTON
                             BOSTON

                                  57




                                                                                                                                                                    51
                                In




                                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                                             177
                                                       5




                                                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                                               94




                                                                                        AM
                                 79
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                           393
                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                             Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                 5 592   55     0


                                                                                              1890       652   2542
                                                                                              Out       In    Total
                                                                                                     HOVER ST
                                                                                             Cutting Edge
                                                                               A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                               1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                       Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                       (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                           File Name                     : HOVER&BOSTON_PM
                                                                                                                                           Site Code                     :9
                                                                                                                                           Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                           Page No                       :1


                                                                                            Groups Printed- PM
                        HOVER ST                                                 BOSTON AVE                        HOVER ST                                                BOSTON AVE
                       Southbound                                                  Westbound                       Northbound                                               Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right             Peds            App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                App. Total     Left Thru Right                         Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM      12    286        8                  0              306       21    13   18     0       52     4 409      27    0                  440            9    23     3                            0       35         833
 04:15 PM      15    343        7                  0              365       17    12   10     0       39     3 436      21    1                  461            7    19     6                            0       32         897
 04:30 PM       8    387        3                  0              398       14    13   16     0       43     3 364      16    2                  385            2    24     7                            0       33         859
 04:45 PM      10    373        4                  0              387       16     9   12     1       38     5 423      18    1                  447            3    33     8                            0       44         916
      Total    45    1389      22                  0             1456       68    47   56     1    172      15 1632     82    4                 1733           21    99   24                             0      144        3505

 05:00 PM      10    342        4                  0              356        13     19      21      0       53         4   432     23     1      460              3        25                     8      0       36         905
 05:15 PM      19    351        3                  0              373        19     10      19      0       48         3   434     20     0      457              3        14                     3      0       20         898
 05:30 PM       9    353        2                  0              364        13     10      19      0       42         5   391     17     0      413              5        23                     6      0       34         853
 05:45 PM       9    372        8                  0              389        14      7      12      0       33         5   298     13     1      317              6        11                     3      0       20         759
      Total    47    1418      17                  0             1482        59     46      71      0      176        17   1555    73     2     1647             17        73                    20      0      110        3415

Grand Total    92    2807     39                   0             2938       127      93    127       1     348        32   3187   155      6    3380            38        172               44           0      254        6920
 Apprch %     3.1    95.5    1.3                   0                       36.5    26.7   36.5     0.3               0.9   94.3    4.6   0.2                    15       67.7             17.3           0
  Total %     1.3    40.6    0.6                   0                42.5     1.8    1.3     1.8      0         5     0.5   46.1    2.2   0.1     48.8          0.5         2.5             0.6           0       3.7


                                                                                                          HOVER ST
                                                                                                   Out       In    Total
                                                                                                   3352     2938    6290


                                                                                                     39 2807         92    0
                                                                                                  Right Thru       Left Peds
                                            418


                                                         38




                                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                           Total




                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                              127



                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                                           419




                                                                                                            North
                                                                                                                                                                              BOSTON AVE
                                BOSTON AVE




                                                                   172
                                                       Peds Right Thru
                                     254




                                                                                                                                                                    93
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                                  348




                                                                                                  6/18/2008 04:00 PM
                                                               44




                                                                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                  6/18/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                             127
                              164




                                                                                                  PM
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                          767
                                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                  Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                    32 3187   155    6


                                                                                                   2978     3380    6358
                                                                                                   Out       In    Total
                                                                                                          HOVER ST
                                                                                                     Cutting Edge
                                                                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                               Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                             File Name                     : HOVER&BOSTON_PM
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code                     :9
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                             Page No                       :2


                          HOVER ST                                                          BOSTON AVE                                      HOVER ST                                        BOSTON AVE
                         Southbound                                                          Westbound                                      Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right                                               Peds     App. Total    Left    Thru    Right   Peds    App. Total     Left Thru                   Right       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM         8 387          3      0      398  14    13 16                                             0           43         3    364       16       2       385               2      24                     7      0         33         859
  04:45 PM       10 373           4      0      387  16     9 12                                             1           38         5    423       18       1       447               3      33                     8      0         44         916
  05:00 PM       10 342           4      0      356  13    19 21                                             0           53         4    432       23       1        460            3        25                     8      0       36         905
  05:15 PM       19 351           3      0      373  19    10 19                                             0         48           3    434       20       0      457              3        14                     3      0       20         898
 Total Volume    47 1453         14      0    1514   62    51 68                                             1        182          15    1653      77       4     1749             11        96                    26      0      133        3578
% App. Total     3.1     96     0.9                    0                            34.1     28   37.4      0.5                    0.9    94.5     4.4     0.2                    8.3      72.2                19.5        0
        PHF    .618    .939   .875                  .000                     .951   .816   .671   .810    .250        .858       .750     .952   .837    .500       .951        .917       .727                .813     .000      .756          .977

                                                                                                                   HOVER ST
                                                                                                            Out       In    Total
                                                                                                            1732     1514    3246


                                                                                                             14 1453              47    0
                                                                                                          Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                             213


                                                             11




                                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                            Total




                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                                 68


                                                                                                                                                                                             220



                                                                                                                       North
                                                                                                                                                                                                BOSTON AVE
                                 BOSTON AVE




                                                                        96
                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                       133




                                                                                                                                                                                      51
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                     182
                                                                   26




                                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                62




                                                                                                     PM
                                80
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                            402
                                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                            15 1653    77    4


                                                                                                            1541     1749    3290
                                                                                                            Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                   HOVER ST
                                                                                                    Cutting Edge
                                                                                      A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                      1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                              Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                             (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                  File Name                     : KENPRATT&MAIN_AM
                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                     :7
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                  Page No                       :1


                                                                                                        Groups Printed- AM
                         MAIN ST                                                          KEN PRATT BLVD                       MAIN ST                                          KEN PRATT BLVD
                        Southbound                                                            Westbound                      Northbound                                            Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Rght               Other             App. Total       Left    Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total     Left Thru                   Rght        Other   App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM      11    124     67                      1                      203    59      204     9     0    272      20   59     8    0                 87          23    63                          24      0       110         672
 07:15 AM      13    179     55                      0                      247    73      229    12     0    314      35   67    16    0                118          24    77                          17      0       118         797
 07:30 AM      20    163     81                      0                      264    78      269    34     1    382      31   72    29    0                132          36    72                          19      0       127         905
 07:45 AM      30    155     52                      0                      237    51      181    14     0    246      34   98    31    0                163          32    74                          22      0       128         774
      Total    74    621    255                      1                      951   261      883    69     1 1214 120 296           84    0                500         115 286                            82      0       483        3148

 08:00 AM      25     90     42                      0                      157    41     189     17      0      247      41      84      8      0       133          44         71                     20      0       135         672
 08:15 AM      13    112     47                      1                      173    54     198     35      0      287      32     109     18      1       160          33         78                     23      0       134         754
 08:30 AM      33     82     16                      0                      131    33     256     13      0      302      22     117     45      0       184          38        134                     11      0       183         800
 08:45 AM      42     84     23                      0                      149    42     228     24      0      294      26      94     45      0       165          50        162                     20      0       232         840
      Total   113    368    128                      1                      610   170     871     89      0     1130     121     404    116      1       642         165        445                     74      0       684        3066

Grand Total   187     989    383                      2             1561           431    1754   158      1     2344      241     700    200      1    1142          280         731              156           0     1167         6214
 Apprch %      12    63.4   24.5                    0.1                           18.4    74.8    6.7     0              21.1    61.3   17.5    0.1                    24       62.6             13.4           0
  Total %       3    15.9     6.2                     0                25.1         6.9   28.2    2.5     0     37.7       3.9   11.3     3.2     0     18.4          4.5       11.8               2.5          0      18.8


                                                                                                                MAIN ST
                                                                                                         Out       In        Total
                                                                                                         1138     1561        2699


                                                                                                         383  989       187     2
                                                                                                        Rght Thru      Left Other
                                             3545


                                                           280
                                            Total




                                                                                                                                                                   Rght Thru
                                                          Left




                                                                                                                                                                    158 1754


                                                                                                                                                                                 1118
                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                                   KEN PRATT BLVD
                              KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                                 North
                                                                      731
                                                          Other Rght Thru
                                    1167
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                         2344
                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                        6/18/2008 07:00 AM
                                                                 156




                                                                                                                                                                   Left Other




                                                                                                        6/18/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                    431
                             2378




                                                                                                        AM
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                3462
                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                                        Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                         241  700  200     1


                                                                                                         1576     1142        2718
                                                                                                         Out       In        Total
                                                                                                                MAIN ST
                                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                                  (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                File Name                     : KENPRATT&MAIN_AM
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code                     :7
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                                Page No                       :2

                            MAIN ST                                                           KEN PRATT BLVD                                      MAIN ST                                     KEN PRATT BLVD
                           Southbound                                                            Westbound                                       Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru                                                Rght     Other    App. Total     Left   Thru    Rght   Other   App. Total     Left Thru                   Rght        Other   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM       11 124          67      1      203  59 204                                            9         0        272          20       59     8       0        87            23        63                    24      0       110           672
  07:15 AM       13 179          55      0      247  73 229                                           12         0        314          35       67    16       0       118            24        77                    17      0       118           797
  07:30 AM       20 163          81      0      264  78  269                                           34         1        382         31       72    29       0       132            36       72                     19      0       127           905
  07:45 AM       30 155          52      0      237  51 181                                           14         0       246           34       98     31      0        163         32         74                     22      0        128        774
 Total Volume    74 621 255              1      951 261 883                                           69         1      1214          120    296      84       0       500         115        286                     82      0       483        3148
 % App. Total     7.8   65.3   26.8                     0.1                            21.5   72.7     5.7      0.1                     24   59.2    16.8      0                   23.8       59.2                  17        0
         PHF    .617    .867   .787                   .250                      .901   .837   .821   .507     .250        .795        .857   .755    .677   .000       .767        .799       .929                .854     .000       .943          .870

                                                                                                                         MAIN ST
                                                                                                                Out        In           Total
                                                                                                                 480        951          1431


                                                                                                               255  621               74     1
                                                                                                              Rght Thru             Left Other




                                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                               1741


                                                               115
                                              Total




                                                                                                                                                                                 Rght Thru
                                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                                   69


                                                                                                                                                                                                444

                                                                                                                                                                                                 KEN PRATT BLVD
                                KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                                           North
                                                                          286
                                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                       883
                                       483
                                       In




                                                                                                                                                                                                       1214
                                                                                                                                                                                                        In

                                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM
                                                                      82




                                                                                                                                                                                 Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                                  261




                                                                                                         AM
                               1258
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                              1658
                                                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                                120  296   84     0


                                                                                                                 964        500          1464
                                                                                                                Out        In           Total
                                                                                                                         MAIN ST
                                                                                                         Cutting Edge
                                                                                           A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                           1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                                   Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                                   (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                         File Name                     : KENPRATT&MAIN_AM
                                                                                                                                                         Site Code                     :7
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                         Page No                       :3

                             MAIN ST                           KEN PRATT BLVD                                                              MAIN ST                               KEN PRATT BLVD
                           Southbound                              Westbound                                                             Northbound                                  Eastbound
                        Thr Rgh                                 Thr Rgh                                                                Thr Rgh                                    Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                       Other   App. Total Left             Other App. Total                                     Left              Other      App. Total     Left             Other App. Total                     Int. Total
                           u       t                              u      t                                                               u     t                                    u      t
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM       11 124          67       1     203        59 204       9      0    272                                          20       59     8      0        87            23        63                    24     0    110        672
  07:15 AM       13 179          55       0     247        73 229      12      0    314                                          35       67    16      0       118            24        77                    17     0    118        797
  07:30 AM       20 163          81       0     264        78   269    34      1    382                                          31       72    29      0       132            36       72                     19     0    127        905
  07:45 AM       30 155          52       0     237        51 181      14      0    246                                          34       98    31      0        163         32         74                     22     0    128      774
 Total Volume    74 621 255               1     951 261 883            69      1 1214                                           120    296      84      0       500         115        286                     82     0    483     3148
 % App. Total     7.8   65.3   26.8                      0.1                            21.5   72.7     5.7      0.1              24   59.2    16.8      0                  23.8       59.2                  17        0
         PHF    .617    .867   .787                    .250                      .901   .837   .821   .507     .250    .795     .857   .755    .677   .000      .767        .799       .929                .854     .000   .943       .870

                                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                                                Out      In       Total
                                                                                                                 480      951      1431


                                                                                                                255  621        74     1
                                                                                                               Rght Thru      Left Other




                                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                               1741


                                                                115
                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                          Rght Thru
                                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                            69


                                                                                                                                                                                         444
                                 KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                                        North                                                             KEN PRATT BLVD
                                                                           286
                                                               Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                883
                                        483
                                        In




                                                                                                                                                                                                1214
                                                                                                                                                                                                 In



                                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM
                                                                       82




                                                                                                                                                                          Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                           261




                                                                                                          AM
                                1258
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                       1658
                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                                120  296   84     0


                                                                                                                 964      500      1464
                                                                                                                Out      In       Total
                                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                                     Cutting Edge
                                                                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                               Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                               (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                      File Name                     : KENPRATT&MAIN_PM
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code                     :7
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                      Page No                       :1


                                                                                                         Groups Printed- PM
                          MAIN ST                                                          KEN PRATT BLVD                               MAIN ST                                     KEN PRATT BLVD
                         Southbound                                                            Westbound                               Northbound                                      Eastbound
Start Time    Left    Thru   Rght               Other             App. Total       Left    Thru Rght Other App. Total Left         Thru   Rght    Other   App. Total     Left Thru                   Rght        Other   App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM      35      97     37                      0                      169    39       66    17     0    122      30         100      19       0       149          37 195                            22      0      254          694
 04:15 PM      31      85     26                      1                      143    25       48    10     0      83     48         116      16       0       180          66 182                            20      0      268          674
 04:30 PM      31     121     23                      0                      175    30       73    24     0    127      32         161      14       0       207          57 225                            26      0      308          817
 04:45 PM      32     120     51                      0                      203    29      104    29     0    162      48         161      30       0       239          63 208                            19      0      290          894
      Total   129     423    137                      1                      690   123      291    80     0    494 158             538      79       0       775         223 810                            87      0     1120         3079

 05:00 PM      52     136     37                      0                      225    40      70      28      0      138      65     180     33        1      279           49        219                     19      0      287          929
 05:15 PM      71     116     45                      0                      232    24      66      15      0      105      79     133     49        0      261           57        176                     15      0      248          846
 05:30 PM      51     125     52                      0                      228    35      71      30      0      136      60     154     60        1      275           65        219                     29      0      313          952
 05:45 PM      48     115     43                      0                      206    24      68      11      0      103      57     169     31        0      257           61        214                     15      0      290          856
      Total   222     492    177                      0                      891   123     275      84      0      482     261     636    173        2     1072          232        828                     78      0     1138         3583

Grand Total    351     915    314                      1             1581           246    566     164      0      976      419    1174    252       2     1847         455         1638                165         0     2258         6662
 Apprch %     22.2    57.9   19.9                    0.1                           25.2      58   16.8      0              22.7    63.6   13.6     0.1                 20.2         72.5                 7.3        0
  Total %       5.3   13.7     4.7                     0                23.7         3.7    8.5     2.5     0     14.7       6.3   17.6     3.8      0      27.7         6.8        24.6                 2.5        0      33.9


                                                                                                                  MAIN ST
                                                                                                           Out       In        Total
                                                                                                           1793     1581        3374


                                                                                                           314  915       351     1
                                                                                                          Rght Thru      Left Other
                                              3557


                                                            455
                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                                       Rght Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                        164


                                                                                                                                                                                     2241
                                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                                                       KEN PRATT BLVD
                               KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                                   North
                                                                  165 1638
                                                           Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                             566
                                     2258
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                                             976




                                                                                                          6/18/2008 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                       Left Other




                                                                                                          6/18/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                                        246
                              1299




                                                                                                          PM
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                    3217
                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                           419 1174  252     2


                                                                                                           1326     1847        3173
                                                                                                           Out       In        Total
                                                                                                                  MAIN ST
                                                                                                      Cutting Edge
                                                                                        A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                        1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                                Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                               (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                            File Name                     : KENPRATT&MAIN_PM
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code                     :7
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                            Page No                       :2

                          MAIN ST                                                           KEN PRATT BLVD                                     MAIN ST                                    KEN PRATT BLVD
                         Southbound                                                            Westbound                                      Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru                                              Rght    Other    App. Total     Left   Thru   Rght   Other   App. Total     Left Thru                   Rght        Other   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM       32 120          51      0      203  29 104                                         29        0         162         48    161     30       0       239            63      208                     19      0       290           894
  05:00 PM       52 136          37      0      225  40    70                                       28        0        138          65    180     33        1       279           49      219                     19      0       287           929
  05:15 PM       71 116          45      0      232  24    66                                       15        0        105          79    133     49       0      261             57      176                     15      0       248           846
  05:30 PM       51 125          52      0      228  35    71                                        30       0        136          60    154      60      1      275             65      219                     29      0        313          952
 Total Volume  206 497 185               0      888 128 311                                        102        0        541         252    628    172       2     1054          234        822                     82      0     1138         3621
 % App. Total   23.2     56   20.8                      0                            23.7   57.5   18.9       0                    23.9   59.6   16.3     0.2                  20.6       72.2                  7.2       0
         PHF    .725   .914   .889                   .000                     .957   .800   .748   .850    .000        .835        .797   .872   .717   .500       .944        .900       .938                .707     .000       .909          .951

                                                                                                                      MAIN ST
                                                                                                             Out        In            Total
                                                                                                              964        888           1852


                                                                                                            185  497              206     0
                                                                                                           Rght Thru             Left Other




                                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                              1886


                                                             234
                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                              102


                                                                                                                                                                                           1200
                                                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                                                             KEN PRATT BLVD
                               KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                                        North
                                                                        822
                                                            Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                   311
                                     1138
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                                   In

                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                    541
                                                                    82




                                                                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                              128




                                                                                                      PM
                               748
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                          1741
                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                            Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                             252  628  172     2


                                                                                                              707       1054           1761
                                                                                                             Out         In           Total
                                                                                                                      MAIN ST
                                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                                (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                      File Name                      : KENPRATT&MAIN_PM
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code                      :7
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date                     : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                      Page No                        :3

                             MAIN ST                           KEN PRATT BLVD                                                            MAIN ST                               KEN PRATT BLVD
                           Southbound                              Westbound                                                           Northbound                                  Eastbound
                        Thr Rgh                                 Thr Rgh                                                              Thr Rgh                                    Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                       Other   App. Total Left             Other App. Total                                   Left              Other      App. Total     Left             Other App. Total                      Int. Total
                           u       t                              u      t                                                             u     t                                    u      t
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM       32 120          51       0     203        29 104      29      0    162                                        48    161     30       0       239            63      208                     19     0     290        894
  05:00 PM       52 136          37       0     225        40    70    28      0    138                                        65    180     33       1        279           49      219                     19     0     287        929
  05:15 PM       71 116          45       0     232        24    66    15      0    105                                        79    133     49       0      261             57      176                     15     0     248        846
  05:30 PM       51 125          52       0     228        35    71    30      0    136                                        60    154     60       1      275             65      219                     29     0     313        952
 Total Volume  206 497 185                0     888 128 311 102                0    541                                       252    628    172       2     1054          234        822                     82     0    1138     3621
 % App. Total   23.2      56   20.8                       0                            23.7   57.5   18.9       0             23.9   59.6   16.3     0.2                  20.6       72.2                  7.2       0
         PHF    .725    .914   .889                    .000                     .957   .800   .748   .850    .000    .835     .797   .872   .717   .500       .944        .900       .938                .707     .000    .909       .951

                                                                                                                     MAIN ST
                                                                                                              Out      In        Total
                                                                                                               964      888       1852


                                                                                                              185  497       206     0
                                                                                                             Rght Thru      Left Other




                                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                                               1886


                                                               234
                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                        Rght Thru
                                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                         102


                                                                                                                                                                                      1200
                                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                 KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                                      North                                                             KEN PRATT BLVD
                                                                          822
                                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                              311
                                       1138
                                        In




                                                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                                                              541




                                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                      82




                                                                                                                                                                        Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                         128




                                                                                                        PM
                                 748
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                     1741
                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                             Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                              252  628  172     2


                                                                                                               707     1054       1761
                                                                                                              Out       In       Total
                                                                                                                     MAIN ST
                                                                                   Cutting Edge
                                                                     A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                     1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                             Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                            (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                               File Name                  : MAIN&1ST_AM
                                                                                                                                               Site Code                  :1
                                                                                                                                               Start Date                 : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                               Page No                    :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- AM
                       MAIN ST                                                1ST AVE                         MAIN ST                                         1ST AVE
                      Southbound                                             Westbound                       Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other                App. Total       Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other        App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       2 212     7     1                            222    50     13     1    0        64     4   69    12     0            85           1     7   0     0                    8        379
 07:15 AM       0 205     8     1                            214    47     13     0    0        60     5   91    15     0           111           1     2   2     0                    5        390
 07:30 AM       0 221     7     2                            230    52     13     2    1        68     2   87    13     2           104           1     0   1     0                    2        404
 07:45 AM       1 263     4     0                            268    48     14     0    0        62     2 154     27     0           183           3     4   2     0                    9        522
     Total      3 901    26     4                            934   197     53     3    1     254      13 401     67     2           483           6    13   5     0                   24       1695

 08:00 AM       5   223     2         0                      230    27     10     3      0       40         0   140   26    0       166             2       9         0     0         11        447
 08:15 AM       0   196     5         0                      201    40     13     1      0       54         4   115   28    1       148             3       6         3     0         12        415
 08:30 AM       6   232     7         0                      245    27     12     1      0       40         0   133   16    1       150             2       4         3     2         11        446
 08:45 AM       3   207     2         2                      214    13      5     4      0       22         1   189   23    0       213             3       7         6     2         18        467
     Total     14   858    16         2                      890   107     40     9      0      156         5   577   93    2       677            10      26        12     4         52       1775

Grand Total   17 1759      42          6             1824     304   93            12     1      410       18 978 160         4    1160    16   39   17                       4        76       3470
 Apprch %     0.9 96.4    2.3        0.3                     74.1 22.7           2.9   0.2               1.6 84.3 13.8     0.3          21.1 51.3 22.4                     5.3
  Total %     0.5 50.7    1.2        0.2                52.6  8.8  2.7           0.3     0     11.8      0.5 28.2  4.6     0.1     33.4  0.5  1.1  0.5                     0.1       2.2


                                                                                               MAIN ST
                                                                                        Out       In        Total
                                                                                        1006     1824        2830


                                                                                         42 1759        17     6
                                                                                       Rght Thru      Left Other
                             229


                                             16
                            Total




                                                                                                                                              Rght Thru
                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                12


                                                                                                                                                            216




                                                                                                North
                                                        39
                                           Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                           1ST AVE
                          1ST AVE

                                76




                                                                                                                                                     93
                              In




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                              410




                                                                                       6/17/2008 07:00 AM
                                                   17




                                                                                                                                              Left Other




                                                                                       6/17/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                               304
                             153




                                                                                       AM
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                               4




                                                                                                                                                            626
                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                       Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                         18  978  160     4


                                                                                        2080     1160        3240
                                                                                        Out       In        Total
                                                                                               MAIN ST
                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                     (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                  File Name                  : MAIN&1ST_AM
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                  :1
                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date                 : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                  Page No                    :2

                         MAIN ST                                                   1ST AVE                                          MAIN ST                                      1ST AVE
                        Southbound                                                Westbound                                        Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                         App. Total     Left   Thru Rght Other      App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other              App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM       1 263          4    0      268    48 14   0  0                                               62          2    154     27       0      183               3      4       2       0          9          522
  08:00 AM       5 223          2    0      230    27 10   3  0                                              40           0    140     26       0      166             2        9       0       0         11        447
  08:15 AM       0 196          5    0      201    40 13   1  0                                              54           4    115     28       1      148             3        6       3       0         12        415
  08:30 AM       6 232          7    0      245    27 12   1  0                                              40           0    133     16       1      150             2        4       3       2         11        446
 Total Volume  12 914         18     0      944 142   49   5  0                                             196           6    542     97       2      647            10       23       8       2         43       1830
% App. Total    1.3   96.8    1.9          0                            72.4     25    2.6       0                       0.9   83.8     15    0.3                  23.3       53.5    18.6     4.7
       PHF     .500   .869   .643       .000                     .881   .740   .875   .417    .000          .790        .375   .880   .866   .500      .884        .833       .639    .667    .250      .896         .876

                                                                                                           MAIN ST
                                                                                               Out           In           Total
                                                                                                557           944          1501


                                                                                                18  914                 12     0
                                                                                              Rght Thru               Left Other




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                116


                                                 10
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                 Rght Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                               132
                                                                                                                                                                    5



                                                                                                             North
                                                            23
                                               Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                              1ST AVE
                             1ST AVE

                                   43




                                                                                                                                                                        49
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                 In

                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                  196
                                                        8




                                                                                                                                                                 Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                  142




                                                                                         AM
                                 73
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                               328
                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                              Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                     6    542   97     2


                                                                                               1064           647          1711
                                                                                               Out           In           Total
                                                                                                           MAIN ST
                                                                                         Cutting Edge
                                                                           A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                           1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                   Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                  (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                File Name                  : MAIN&1ST_AM
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code                  :1
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date                 : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                Page No                    :3

                           MAIN ST                             1ST AVE                                                           MAIN ST                                        1ST AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                         Northbound                                      Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                           Thr Rgh                                        Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other                             App. Total     Left             Other      App. Total     Left                 Other        App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u     t                                                           u     t                                        u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM       1 263          4     0     268        48   14     0    0                                   62          2    154     27      0       183               3      4       2       0          9          522
  08:00 AM       5 223          2     0     230        27   10     3    0                                  40           0    140     26      0       166             2        9       0       0         11        447
  08:15 AM       0 196          5     0     201        40   13     1    0                                  54           4    115     28      1       148             3        6       3       0         12        415
  08:30 AM       6 232          7     0     245        27   12     1    0                                  40           0    133     16      1       150             2        4       3       2         11        446
 Total Volume  12 914         18      0     944 142         49     5    0                                 196           6    542     97      2       647            10       23       8       2         43       1830
 % App. Total    1.3   96.8    1.9          0                            72.4     25    2.6       0                    0.9   83.8     15    0.3                  23.3       53.5    18.6     4.7
        PHF     .500   .869   .643       .000                     .881   .740   .875   .417    .000       .790        .375   .880   .866   .500      .884        .833       .639    .667    .250      .896         .876

                                                                                                         MAIN ST
                                                                                                Out        In           Total
                                                                                                 557        944          1501


                                                                                                 18  914              12     0
                                                                                               Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 116


                                                  10
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                               Rght Thru
                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                             132
                                                                                                                                                                  5




                                                                                                           North
                                                             23
                                                Other Rght Thru
                              1ST AVE




                                                                                                                                                                            1ST AVE
                                    43




                                                                                                                                                                      49
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                                               196




                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                         8




                                                                                                                                                               Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                142




                                                                                          AM
                                  73
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                             328
                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                   6 542   97     2


                                                                                                1064        647          1711
                                                                                                Out        In           Total
                                                                                                         MAIN ST
                                                                                       Cutting Edge
                                                                         A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                         1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                 Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                               File Name                   : MAIN&1ST_PM
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code                   :1
                                                                                                                                                               Start Date                  : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                               Page No                     :1


                                                                                             Groups Printed- PM
                         MAIN ST                                                 1ST AVE                                       MAIN ST                                          1ST AVE
                        Southbound                                              Westbound                                     Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Rght   Other            App. Total       Left    Thru   Rght   Other    App. Total     Left   Thru   Rght    Other   App. Total     Left Thru           Rght    Other   App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       3    208       4        0                      215    29      12       3      0         44           2    291     40        1      334            5    15              5       0        25         618
 04:15 PM       3    220       4        1                      228    29       8       1      0         38          22    273     39        1      335            8    19              6       0        33         634
 04:30 PM       1    241       3        0                      245    25       8       2      0         35           5    311     41        0      357            4    18              2       0        24         661
 04:45 PM       1    254       2        0                      257    40      10       2      0         52           2    308     46        1      357            3    30              4       0        37         703
      Total     8    923      13        1                      945   123      38       8      0        169          31    1183   166        3     1383           20    82             17       0       119        2616

 05:00 PM       3    217       3        0                      223    32      12       2      1         47           2    263     63        0      328              3        23        3       0          29       627
 05:15 PM       0    246       2        0                      248    29      10       4      0         43           3    356     46        2      407              7        19        1       0          27       725
 05:30 PM       1    205       2        0                      208    30       9       1      0         40           3    287     46        0      336              4        16        2       0          22       606
 05:45 PM       0    223       5        0                      228    27       7       1      0         35           1    261     53        0      315              4        12        2       0          18       596
      Total     4    891      12        0                      907   118      38       8      1        165           9    1167   208        2     1386             18        70        8       0          96      2554

Grand Total    12    1814     25         1             1852           241      76     16      1        334          40    2350    374       5     2769          38          152       25       0       215        5170
 Apprch %     0.6    97.9    1.3       0.1                           72.2    22.8    4.8    0.3                    1.4    84.9   13.5     0.2                 17.7         70.7     11.6       0
  Total %     0.2    35.1    0.5         0                35.8         4.7    1.5    0.3      0         6.5        0.8    45.5     7.2    0.1      53.6        0.7           2.9     0.5       0        4.2


                                                                                                      MAIN ST
                                                                                             Out         In          Total
                                                                                             2404       1852          4256


                                                                                             25 1814               12     1
                                                                                           Rght Thru             Left Other
                                356


                                               38
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                              Rght Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                16


                                                                                                                                                                             538




                                                                                                        North
                                                         152
                                             Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                            1ST AVE
                             1ST AVE

                                 215




                                                                                                                                                                     76
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                                               334




                                                                                            6/17/2008 04:00 PM
                                                     25




                                                                                                                                                              Left Other




                                                                                            6/17/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                               241
                                141




                                                                                            PM
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                             872
                                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                            Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                              40 2350  374     5


                                                                                             2080       2769          4849
                                                                                             Out         In          Total
                                                                                                      MAIN ST
                                                                                         Cutting Edge
                                                                           A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                           1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                   Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                   (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                        File Name                    : MAIN&1ST_PM
                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code                    :1
                                                                                                                                                                        Start Date                   : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                        Page No                      :2

                           MAIN ST                                                 1ST AVE                                              MAIN ST                                          1ST AVE
                          Southbound                                              Westbound                                            Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                       App. Total     Left         Thru    Rght   Other   App. Total     Left Thru           Rght     Other   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM         1 241          3      0      245  25     8  2 0                                           35                5   311      41       0       357               4     18         2        0          24         661
  04:45 PM         1 254          2      0      257  40    10  2 0                                           52             2      308      46       1       357               3     30         4        0          37         703
  05:00 PM         3 217          3      0      223  32    12  2 1                                         47               2      263       63      0       328               3     23         3        0        29           627
  05:15 PM         0 246          2      0      248  29    10  4 0                                         43               3      356      46        2       407              7     19         1        0        27           725
 Total Volume      5 958         10      0      973 126    40 10 1                                        177              12      1238    196       3     1449             17       90        10        0       117        2716
% App. Total     0.5   98.5      1         0                            71.2   22.6     5.6      0.6                    0.8         85.4   13.5     0.2                  14.5       76.9       8.5       0
        PHF    .417    .943   .833      .000                     .946   .788   .833   .625     .250       .851        .600          .869   .778   .375       .890        .607       .750     .625     .000       .791          .937

                                                                                                         MAIN ST
                                                                                                Out        In                  Total
                                                                                                1265        973                 2238


                                                                                                 10  958                   5       0
                                                                                               Rght Thru            Left       Other




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 179


                                                 17
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                       Rght Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                                         10


                                                                                                                                                                                      291
                                                                                                           North
                                                            90
                                               Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                     1ST AVE
                              1ST AVE

                                  117




                                                                                                                                                                              40
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                        In

                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                         177
                                                       10




                                                                                                                                                                       Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                        126




                                                                                          PM
                                  62
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                      468
                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                 12 1238  196     3


                                                                                                1094       1449                 2543
                                                                                                Out         In                 Total
                                                                                                         MAIN ST
                                                                                          Cutting Edge
                                                                            A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                            1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                    Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                    (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                    File Name                    : MAIN&1ST_PM
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code                    :1
                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date                   : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                    Page No                      :3

                             MAIN ST                               1ST AVE                                                          MAIN ST                                         1ST AVE
                           Southbound                             Westbound                                                       Northbound                                       Eastbound
                        Thr Rgh                                Thr Rgh                                                          Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                       Other   App. Total Left            Other                         App. Total     Left                Other      App. Total     Left                  Other         App. Total   Int. Total
                           u       t                             u      t                                                         u     t                                         u      t
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM         1 241          3       0     245        25    8     2      0                               35          5    311      41       0       357               4     18         2       0          24         661
  04:45 PM         1 254          2       0     257        40   10     2      0                               52         2     308      46       1       357               3     30         4       0          37         703
  05:00 PM         3 217          3       0     223        32   12     2      1                             47           2     263      63       0       328               3     23         3       0        29           627
  05:15 PM         0 246          2       0     248        29   10     4      0                             43           3     356      46       2        407              7     19         1       0        27           725
 Total Volume      5 958         10       0     973 126         40    10      1                            177          12     1238    196       3     1449             17       90        10       0       117        2716
 % App. Total     0.5   98.5      1         0                            71.2   22.6     5.6      0.6                    0.8    85.4   13.5     0.2                  14.5       76.9       8.5       0
         PHF    .417    .943   .833      .000                     .946   .788   .833   .625     .250       .851        .600     .869   .778   .375       .890        .607       .750     .625     .000      .791          .937

                                                                                                          MAIN ST
                                                                                                 Out        In            Total
                                                                                                 1265        973           2238


                                                                                                  10  958                5    0
                                                                                                Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                  179


                                                  17
                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                                   Rght Thru
                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                     10


                                                                                                                                                                                  291

                                                                                                            North
                                                             90
                                                Other Rght Thru
                               1ST AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                 1ST AVE
                                   117




                                                                                                                                                                          40
                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                                                    177




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                        10




                                                                                                                                                                   Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                    126




                                                                                           PM
                                   62
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                  468
                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                                Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                  12 1238  196     3


                                                                                                 1094       1449           2543
                                                                                                 Out         In           Total
                                                                                                          MAIN ST
                                                                                      Cutting Edge
                                                                        A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                        1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                  (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                            File Name                : MAIN&2ND_AM
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code                :2
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date               : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                            Page No                  :1


                                                                                             Groups Printed- AM
                         MAIN ST                                               2ND AVE                                        MAIN ST                                        2ND AVE
                        Southbound                                             Westbound                                     Northbound                                      Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right   Peds            App. Total       Left   Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru Right            Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       7    206      18        0                      231    15      6       0       0           21        5     62       5       0       72           6     8     9               2       25         349
 07:15 AM       3    186      21        0                      210    11     10       0       2           23       10     74       1       0       85           7    16   11                2       36         354
 07:30 AM       3    222      16        0                      241     3     15       2       2           22       13     81       5       0       99           5    14     9               1       29         391
 07:45 AM       1    243      11        0                      255    12     14       0       0           26       23    133       6       0      162          12    21   12                0       45         488
      Total    14    857      66        0                      937    41     45       2       4           92       51    350      17       0      418          30    59   41                5      135        1582

 08:00 AM      10    242      15        0                      267     7      7       2       0           16         8   138       8       0      154            19       19        11      2       51         488
 08:15 AM       4    177      12        1                      194     9      5       2       1           17        13   102       6       0      121            14       10        15      1       40         372
 08:30 AM       2    211      10        0                      223    15      7       5       1           28         9   124       7       0      140            11        4        15      1       31         422
 08:45 AM       2    211       9        0                      222     8      9       7       0           24        13   181       8       0      202            10        6         9      0       25         473
      Total    18    841      46        1                      906    39     28      16       2           85        43   545      29       0      617            54       39        50      4      147        1755

Grand Total    32    1698   112          1             1843            80     73     18       6        177          94    895     46       0    1035          84           98       91      9      282        3337
 Apprch %     1.7    92.1    6.1       0.1                           45.2   41.2   10.2     3.4                    9.1   86.5    4.4       0                29.8         34.8     32.3    3.2
  Total %       1    50.9    3.4         0                55.2        2.4    2.2    0.5     0.2         5.3        2.8   26.8    1.4       0         31      2.5          2.9      2.7    0.3       8.5


                                                                                                      MAIN ST
                                                                                             Out         In          Total
                                                                                              997       1843          2840


                                                                                             112 1698              32    1
                                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds
                                561


                                               84




                                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                               Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                               18


                                                                                                                                                                           176




                                                                                                        North
                                                          98
                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                          2ND AVE
                             2ND AVE

                                 282




                                                                                                                                                                    73
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                             177




                                                                                            6/17/2008 07:00 AM
                                                     91




                                                                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                            6/17/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                              80
                                279




                                                                                            AM
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                9




                                                                                                                                                                           353
                                                                                                                                                                    6




                                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                             94  895    46    0


                                                                                             1869       1035          2904
                                                                                             Out         In          Total
                                                                                                      MAIN ST
                                                                                           Cutting Edge
                                                                             A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                             1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                     Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                    (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                 File Name                 : MAIN&2ND_AM
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code                 :2
                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date                : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                 Page No                   :2

                          MAIN ST                                                   2ND AVE                                       MAIN ST                                         2ND AVE
                         Southbound                                                 Westbound                                    Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                                        App. Total    Left    Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru           Right   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM         1 243         11      0      255  12    14 0 0                                             26        23    133       6       0       162           12       21        12       0          45         488
  08:00 AM       10 242          15      0      267   7     7 2 0                                             16         8    138       8       0      154            19       19        11       2          51       488
  08:15 AM         4 177         12      1      194   9     5 2 1                                             17        13    102       6       0      121            14       10        15       1        40         372
  08:30 AM         2 211         10      0      223  15     7 5 1                                             28         9    124       7       0      140            11        4        15       1        31         422
 Total Volume    17 873          48      1      939  43    33 9 2                                             87        53    497      27       0      577            56       54        53       4       167        1770
% App. Total     1.8     93     5.1        0.1                            49.4   37.9   10.3      2.3                   9.2   86.1     4.7      0                  33.5       32.3     31.7      2.4
        PHF    .425    .898   .800       .250                      .879   .717   .589   .450    .500       .777       .576    .900   .844    .000      .890        .737       .643     .883    .500       .819          .907

                                                                                                          MAIN ST
                                                                                                 Out        In           Total
                                                                                                  562        939          1501


                                                                                                   48  873             17    1
                                                                                                Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                  301


                                                   56




                                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                 Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                     9


                                                                                                                                                                                 98
                                                                                                            North
                                                              54
                                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                               2ND AVE
                              2ND AVE

                                  167




                                                                                                                                                                         33
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                  In

                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                    87
                                                         53




                                                                                                                                                                 Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                   43




                                                                                           AM
                                  134
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                    4




                                                                                                                                                                                185
                                                                                                                                                                         2




                                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                  53  497    27    0


                                                                                                  969        577          1546
                                                                                                 Out        In           Total
                                                                                                          MAIN ST
                                                                                    Cutting Edge
                                                                      A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                      1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                              Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                          File Name                 : MAIN&2ND_PM
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code                 :2
                                                                                                                                                          Start Date                : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                          Page No                   :1


                                                                                           Groups Printed- PM
                         MAIN ST                                             2ND AVE                                        MAIN ST                                        2ND AVE
                        Southbound                                           Westbound                                     Northbound                                      Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right   Peds          App. Total       Left   Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru Right             Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       3    208       9       0                     220    11     11       3       7         32         12    294       6       0     312           22     6     7                0       35         599
 04:15 PM       3    215      11       0                     229    12     10       3       1         26         17    262      10       0     289           22    30   12                 0       64         608
 04:30 PM       4    185      15       0                     204    12     16       6       7         41          8    294      13       0     315           23    38   18                 1       80         640
 04:45 PM       1    229      11       0                     241    14     13       4       1         32         22    284       6       0     312           28    36   20                 1       85         670
      Total    11    837      46       0                     894    49     50      16      16        131         59    1134     35       0    1228           95 110     57                 2      264        2517

 05:00 PM       5    198      19       0                     222     5     10       3       0           18        13   247      10       0     270             28       52        23       0      103         613
 05:15 PM       1    231      23       0                     255     8     15       1       0           24        21   340      13       0     374             17       39        23       0       79         732
 05:30 PM       4    200      13       0                     217     3     18       4       0           25        12   269       9       0     290             30       37        22       0       89         621
 05:45 PM       0    220      17       0                     237    11      7       3       0           21         9   252       8       0     269             14       20        15       1       50         577
      Total    10    849      72       0                     931    27     50      11       0           88        55   1108     40       0    1203             89      148        83       1      321        2543

Grand Total    21    1686   118        0             1825            76    100     27      16        219        114    2242     75       0    2431         184          258      140       3      585        5060
 Apprch %     1.2    92.4    6.5       0                           34.7   45.7   12.3     7.3                    4.7   92.2    3.1       0                31.5         44.1     23.9     0.5
  Total %     0.4    33.3    2.3       0                36.1        1.5      2    0.5     0.3         4.3        2.3   44.3    1.5       0         48       3.6          5.1      2.8    0.1     11.6


                                                                                                    MAIN ST
                                                                                           Out         In          Total
                                                                                           2453       1825          4278


                                                                                           118 1686              21    0
                                                                                         Right Thru            Left Peds
                                917


                                            184




                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                               Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                             27


                                                                                                                                                                         354




                                                                                                      North
                                                       258
                                           Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                        2ND AVE
                             2ND AVE




                                                                                                                                                                 100
                                 585
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                           219




                                                                                          6/17/2008 04:00 PM
                                                  140




                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds




                                                                                          6/17/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                            76
                                332




                                                                                          PM
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                              3




                                                                                                                                                                         573
                                                                                                                                                                 16




                                                                                         Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                          114 2242    75    0


                                                                                           1902       2431          4333
                                                                                           Out         In          Total
                                                                                                    MAIN ST
                                                                                           Cutting Edge
                                                                             A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                             1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                     Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                        (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                   File Name                 : MAIN&2ND_PM
                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code                 :2
                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                   Page No                   :2

                            MAIN ST                                                 2ND AVE                                         MAIN ST                                         2ND AVE
                           Southbound                                               Westbound                                      Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru                                   Right    Peds     App. Total    Left   Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru           Right   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM         4 185         15      0      204  12    16                              6        7           41         8   294       13       0      315            23       38        18       1          80         640
  04:45 PM         1 229         11      0      241  14    13                              4        1         32          22   284        6       0      312            28       36        20       1          85         670
  05:00 PM         5 198         19      0      222   5    10                              3        0         18          13   247       10       0      270            28       52        23       0        103          613
  05:15 PM         1 231         23      0      255   8    15                              1        0         24          21   340       13       0       374           17       39        23       0        79           732
 Total Volume    11 843          68      0      922  39    54                             14        8        115          64   1165      42       0    1271             96      165        84       2       347        2655
 % App. Total     1.2   91.4     7.4         0                            33.9     47   12.2        7                      5    91.7     3.3      0                  27.7       47.6     24.2      0.6
         PHF    .550    .912   .739       .000                     .904   .696   .844   .583     .286        .701       .727    .857   .808    .000      .850        .857       .793     .913    .500       .842          .907

                                                                                                            MAIN ST
                                                                                                   Out        In           Total
                                                                                                   1275        922          2197


                                                                                                    68  843              11    0
                                                                                                 Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                   533


                                                   96




                                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                  Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                      14


                                                                                                                                                                                  218
                                                                                                              North
                                                             165
                                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                 2ND AVE
                               2ND AVE

                                   347




                                                                                                                                                                           54
                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                    In

                                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                     115
                                                         84




                                                                                                                                                                   Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                     39




                                                                                            PM
                                   186
                                  Out




                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                  333
                                                                                                                                                                           8




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                   64 1165    42    0


                                                                                                    966       1271          2237
                                                                                                   Out         In          Total
                                                                                                            MAIN ST
                                                                                       Cutting Edge
                                                                         A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                         1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                 Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                   (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                              File Name                : MAIN&3RD_AM
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code                :3
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date               : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                              Page No                  :1


                                                                                              Groups Printed- AM
                         MAIN ST                                                3RD AVE                                        MAIN ST                                         3RD AVE
                        Southbound                                              Westbound                                     Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right   Peds            App. Total       Left    Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total    Left    Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru Right            Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM      25    185      20        0                      230    52     100       7       0        159          3      52       7       0       62           3    19     2               0       24         475
 07:15 AM      18    182      13        2                      215    43      89      21       0        153          9      87      10       1      107           7    40     9               0       56         531
 07:30 AM      23    187      26        0                      236    52     104      13       1        170          6      60      11       1       78           9    26   11                0       46         530
 07:45 AM      17    208      28        0                      253    50     136      11       1        198         21     112      13       0      146           4    54   10                0       68         665
      Total    83    762      87        2                      934   197     429      52       2        680         39     311      41       2      393          23 139     32                0      194        2201

 08:00 AM      21    183      13        0                      217    46     106      13       1        166          19     98      20       0      137            15       41        14      0       70         590
 08:15 AM      20    138      16        0                      174    47      90      19       0        156          10     95      24       0      129            10       52        16      0       78         537
 08:30 AM      21    176      22        0                      219    47     114      16       0        177          19     96      26       0      141             5       44        16      0       65         602
 08:45 AM      23    155      18        2                      198    42     106      17       2        167          17    130      25       0      172             7       51        25      1       84         621
      Total    85    652      69        2                      808   182     416      65       3        666          65    419      95       0      579            37      188        71      1      297        2350

Grand Total   168    1414   156          4             1742           379     845   117        5      1346          104     730   136        2      972         60          327     103       1      491        4551
 Apprch %      9.6   81.2      9       0.2                           28.2    62.8    8.7     0.4                   10.7    75.1    14      0.2                12.2         66.6       21    0.2
  Total %      3.7   31.1    3.4       0.1                38.3         8.3   18.6    2.6     0.1       29.6          2.3     16     3        0     21.4        1.3           7.2     2.3      0     10.8


                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                              Out         In          Total
                                                                                               907       1742          2649


                                                                                              156 1414             168    4
                                                                                            Right Thru            Left Peds
                               1596


                                               60




                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                               Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                117



                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                                             631




                                                                                                         North
                                                         327
                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                            3RD AVE
                             3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                     845
                                 491
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                              1346
                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                             6/17/2008 07:00 AM
                                                    103




                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds




                                                                                             6/17/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                               379
                               1105




                                                                                             AM
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                            1977
                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                             104  730   136    2


                                                                                              1896        972          2868
                                                                                              Out        In           Total
                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                           Cutting Edge
                                                                             A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                             1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                     Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                        (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                  File Name                 : MAIN&3RD_AM
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                 :3
                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date                : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                  Page No                   :2

                            MAIN ST                                                 3RD AVE                                         MAIN ST                                        3RD AVE
                           Southbound                                               Westbound                                      Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru                                   Right    Peds     App. Total    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru           Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM       17 208          28      0      253  50  136                              11        1         198         21   112      13       0       146              4     54        10       0         68         665
  08:00 AM       21 183          13      0      217  46 106                               13        1        166          19    98      20       0      137            15       41        14       0         70       590
  08:15 AM       20 138          16      0      174  47    90                             19        0        156          10    95      24       0      129            10       52        16       0         78       537
  08:30 AM       21 176          22      0      219  47 114                               16        0        177          19    96      26       0      141             5       44        16       0       65         602
 Total Volume    79 705          79      0      863 190 446                               59        2        697          69   401      83       0      553            34      191        56       0      281        2394
 % App. Total     9.2   81.7     9.2         0                            27.3     64     8.5      0.3                  12.5   72.5     15       0                  12.1         68     19.9       0
         PHF    .940    .847   .705       .000                     .853   .950   .820   .776     .500        .880       .821   .895   .798    .000      .947        .567       .884     .875    .000      .901          .900

                                                                                                            MAIN ST
                                                                                                   Out        In           Total
                                                                                                    494        863          1357


                                                                                                    79  705              79    0
                                                                                                 Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                   875


                                                   34




                                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                  Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                                     59


                                                                                                                                                                                 353
                                                                                                              North
                                                             191
                                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                3RD AVE
                               3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                         446
                                   281
                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                   In

                                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                    697
                                                         56




                                                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                   190




                                                                                            AM
                                   594
                                  Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                1050
                                                                                                                                                                          2




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                   69  401    83    0


                                                                                                    951        553          1504
                                                                                                   Out        In           Total
                                                                                                            MAIN ST
                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                    (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                              File Name                : MAIN&3RD_PM
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code                :3
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date               : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                              Page No                  :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- PM
                          MAIN ST                                                3RD AVE                                   MAIN ST                                             3RD AVE
                         Southbound                                              Westbound                                   Northbound                                        Eastbound
Start Time    Left    Thru   Right   Peds            App. Total       Left    Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru Right            Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM      24     186      20        0                      230    38      76      18       1        133         20    260     33        1     314           15    89   11                5      120         797
 04:15 PM      23     169      15        1                      208    47      85      15       1        148         16    231     34        2     283           26 109       8               0      143         782
 04:30 PM      30     153      16        1                      200    42      85      21       2        150         21    238     25        2     286           20    87   13                3      123         759
 04:45 PM      30     176      20        0                      226    45      85      27       3        160         21    268     30        5     324           20    63   17                5      105         815
      Total   107     684      71        2                      864   172     331      81       7        591         78    997    122       10    1207           81 348     49               13      491        3153

 05:00 PM      27     165      14        7                      213    46      89      32       6        173          13   241     27        0     281             17       96        11      1      125         792
 05:15 PM      25     191      18        0                      234    42     115      22       5        184          20   301     37        3     361             24       86         9      1      120         899
 05:30 PM      21     147      19        3                      190    41      92      25       0        158          15   255     35        1     306             14       66         9      3       92         746
 05:45 PM      30     133      12        1                      176    40      88      13      12        153          12   255     28        6     301             11       66        21      1       99         729
      Total   103     636      63       11                      813   169     384      92      23        668          60   1052   127       10    1249             66      314        50      6      436        3166

Grand Total    210    1320   134         13             1677           341     715    173      30      1259         138    2049    249      20    2456         147          662       99     19      927        6319
 Apprch %     12.5    78.7      8       0.8                           27.1    56.8   13.7     2.4                    5.6   83.4   10.1     0.8                15.9         71.4     10.7      2
  Total %       3.3   20.9    2.1       0.2                26.5         5.4   11.3     2.7    0.5       19.9         2.2   32.4     3.9    0.3     38.9         2.3        10.5      1.6    0.3     14.7


                                                                                                        MAIN ST
                                                                                               Out         In          Total
                                                                                               2369       1677          4046


                                                                                               134 1320             210   13
                                                                                             Right Thru            Left Peds
                                1914


                                               147




                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                173


                                                                                                                                                                            1121
                                                                                                                                                                            Out




                                                                                                          North
                                                          662
                                              Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                            3RD AVE
                              3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                     715
                                  927
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                              1259
                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                              6/17/2008 04:00 PM
                                                      99




                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds




                                                                                              6/17/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                               341
                                 987




                                                                                              PM
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                19




                                                                                                                                                                            2380
                                                                                                                                                                     30




                                                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                              138 2049   249   20


                                                                                               1760    2456             4216
                                                                                               Out      In             Total
                                                                                                 MAIN ST
                                                                                           Cutting Edge
                                                                             A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                             1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                     Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                        (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                    File Name                 : MAIN&3RD_PM
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code                 :3
                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date                : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                    Page No                   :2

                           MAIN ST                                                  3RD AVE                                    MAIN ST                                               3RD AVE
                          Southbound                                                Westbound                                    Northbound                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru                                   Right    Peds     App. Total    Left   Thru    Right   Peds    App. Total     Left Thru           Right   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       30 153          16      1      200  42    85                             21        2        150          21   238       25       2       286            20       87        13       3       123           759
  04:45 PM       30 176          20      0      226  45    85                             27        3        160          21   268       30       5       324            20       63        17       5       105           815
  05:00 PM       27 165          14      7      213  46    89                             32        6        173          13   241       27       0       281            17       96        11       1        125          792
  05:15 PM       25 191          18      0      234  42 115                              22         5         184         20   301       37       3        361           24       86         9       1       120           899
 Total Volume  112 685           68      8      873 175 374                             102        16        667          75   1048    119       10     1252             81      332        50      10       473        3265
 % App. Total   12.8   78.5     7.8        0.9                            26.2   56.1   15.3       2.4                     6    83.7     9.5     0.8                  17.1       70.2     10.6      2.1
         PHF    .933   .897   .850       .286                      .933   .951   .813   .797     .667        .906       .893    .870   .804    .500       .867        .844       .865     .735    .500       .946          .908

                                                                                                            MAIN ST
                                                                                                   Out        In           Total
                                                                                                   1231        873          2104


                                                                                                    68  685             112    8
                                                                                                 Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                  990


                                                   81




                                                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                 Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                      102



                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                                   563
                                                                                                              North
                                                             332
                                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                  3RD AVE
                              3RD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                           374
                                  473
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                     In

                                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                      667
                                                         50




                                                                                                                                                                    Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                     175




                                                                                            PM
                                  517
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                  1230
                                                   10




                                                                                                                                                                           16




                                                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                   75 1048   119   10


                                                                                                    910    1252             2162
                                                                                                   Out      In             Total
                                                                                                     MAIN ST
                                                                                          Cutting Edge
                                                                            A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                            1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                    Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                             File Name                    : MAIN&BOSTON_AM
                                                                                                                                             Site Code                    : 13
                                                                                                                                             Start Date                   : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                             Page No                      :1


                                                                                            Groups Printed- AM
                     MAIN ST                                                  BOSTON AVE                       MAIN ST                                          BOSTON AVE
                       Southbound                                                 Westbound                       Northbound                                         Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right        Peds           App. Total        Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       0    288       2             0               290            0     0     0    0         0    7 107       0    0                  114           0     0     3    0                       3       407
 07:15 AM       0    238       2             0               240            0     0     0    0         0    8 103       0    0                  111           0     0     4    0                       4       355
 07:30 AM       0    344       4             0               348            0     0     0    0         0    5 135       0    0                  140           1     0     7    0                       8       496
 07:45 AM       0    316       3             0               319            0     0     0    0         0    8 162       0    0                  170           1     0     5    0                       6       495
      Total     0    1186     11             0              1197            0     0     0    0         0   28 507       0    0                  535           2     0    19    0                      21      1753

 08:00 AM       0    256       2             0                      258     0     0     0     0          0           8      145      0   0      153                0       0            0   0          0       411
 08:15 AM       0    245       3             0                      248     0     0     0     0          0           5      167      0   0      172                1       0            4   0          5       425
 08:30 AM       0    207       4             0                      211     0     0     0     0          0           4      136      0   0      140                1       0            1   0          2       353
 08:45 AM       0    240       5             0                      245     0     0     0     0          0           3      197      0   0      200                0       0            5   0          5       450
      Total     0    948      14             0                      962     0     0     0     0          0          20      645      0   0      665                2       0           10   0         12      1639

Grand Total     0    2134     25             0              2159            0     0     0     0          0       48        1152      0   0    1200           4             0        29      0         33      3392
 Apprch %       0    98.8    1.2             0                              0     0     0     0                   4             96   0   0                12.1             0      87.9      0
  Total %       0    62.9    0.7             0                63.6          0     0     0     0          0      1.4             34   0   0     35.4        0.1             0       0.9      0           1


                                                                                               MAIN ST
                                                                                             Out      In                Total
                                                                                             1156    2159                3315


                                                                                               25 2134              0      0
                                                                                            Right Thru       Left       Peds
                                  106


                                                 4




                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                 Total




                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                        BOSTON AVE
                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                     North
                                                                0
                                                 Peds Right Thru
                                        33
                             BOSTON AVE
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                                                In




                                                                                            6/18/2008 07:00 AM
                                                         29




                                                                                                                                                          Left



                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                            6/18/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                73




                                                                                            AM
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                          Peds



                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                              48 1152     0    0


                                                                                             2163    1200                3363
                                                                                             Out      In                Total
                                                                                               MAIN ST
                                                                                              Cutting Edge
                                                                                A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                        Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                       (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                             File Name                     : MAIN&BOSTON_AM
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code                     : 13
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                             Page No                       :2

                      MAIN ST                          BOSTON AVE                                                                      MAIN ST                                  BOSTON AVE
                        Southbound                         Westbound                                                                     Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                                           App. Total     Left         Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM         0 344          4      0      348  0     0    0    0                                             0               5   135       0       0      140                1        0            7     0            8        496
  07:45 AM         0 316          3      0      319  0     0    0    0                                             0               8   162       0       0      170                1        0            5     0           6       495
  08:00 AM         0 256          2      0      258  0     0    0    0                                             0            8      145       0       0      153                0        0            0     0           0       411
  08:15 AM         0 245          3      0      248  0     0    0    0                                             0            5      167       0       0       172               1        0            4     0           5       425
 Total Volume      0 1161        12      0    1173   0     0    0    0                                             0           26      609       0       0      635                3        0           16     0          19      1827
% App. Total      0     99      1               0                                0      0      0       0                    4.1        95.9      0       0                  15.8           0        84.2        0
        PHF    .000   .844   .750            .000                      .843   .000   .000   .000    .000      .000        .813         .912   .000    .000      .923        .750        .000        .571     .000      .594          .921

                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                                     Out      In                   Total
                                                                                                      612    1173                   1785


                                                                                                       12 1161                 0      0
                                                                                                    Right Thru          Left       Peds




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                    57


                                                    3




                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                 Total




                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                         BOSTON AVE
                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                               North
                                                                   0
                                                    Peds Right Thru
                                        19
                             BOSTON AVE
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                                                                 In

                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                            16




                                                                                                                                                                          Left



                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                               AM
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                38
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                          Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                      26  609     0    0


                                                                                                     1177      635                  1812
                                                                                                     Out      In                   Total
                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                     Cutting Edge
                                                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                               Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                            (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                     File Name                    : MAIN&BOSTON_PM
                                                                                                                                     Site Code                    : 13
                                                                                                                                     Start Date                   : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                     Page No                      :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- PM
                     MAIN ST                                             BOSTON AVE                       MAIN ST                                       BOSTON AVE
                       Southbound                                            Westbound                       Northbound                                      Eastbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right        Peds           App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds            App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds                App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       0    268       3             0               271       0     0     0    0         0     3 322      0    0              325            2     0     2    0                       4       600
 04:15 PM       0    233       3             0               236       0     0     0    0         0     4 346      0    0              350            1     0     4    0                       5       591
 04:30 PM       0    261       2             0               263       0     0     0    0         0     4 331      0    0              335            4     0     3    0                       7       605
 04:45 PM       0    265       4             0               269       0     0     0    0         0     6 318      0    0              324            3     0     7    0                      10       603
      Total     0    1027     12             0              1039       0     0     0    0         0   17 1317      0    0             1334           10     0    16    0                      26      2399

 05:00 PM       0    277         3           0               280       0     0     0     0          0           3      353   0   0     356                 0       0            7   0          7       643
 05:15 PM       0    278         3           0               281       0     0     0     0          0           8      300   0   0     308                 0       0           11   0         11       600
 05:30 PM       0    246         2           0               248       0     0     0     0          0          10      307   0   0     317                 4       1            2   0          7       572
 05:45 PM       0    234         0           0               234       0     0     0     0          0           5      325   0   0     330                 4       0            4   0          8       572
      Total     0    1035        8           0              1043       0     0     0     0          0          26     1285   0   0    1311                 8       1           24   0         33      2387

Grand Total     0    2062     20             0              2082       0     0     0     0          0       43        2602   0   0    2645          18            1         40      0         59      4786
 Apprch %       0      99      1             0                         0     0     0     0                 1.6        98.4   0   0                30.5          1.7       67.8      0
  Total %       0    43.1    0.4             0                43.5     0     0     0     0          0      0.9        54.4   0   0     55.3        0.4            0        0.8      0       1.2


                                                                                          MAIN ST
                                                                                        Out      In                Total
                                                                                        2620    2082                4702


                                                                                          20 2062              0      0
                                                                                       Right Thru       Left       Peds
                                  122


                                                   18




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                 Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                                BOSTON AVE
                                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                North
                                                                1
                                                 Peds Right Thru
                                        59
                             BOSTON AVE
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                       6/18/2008 04:00 PM
                                                         40




                                                                                                                                                  Left



                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                       6/18/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                63




                                                                                       PM
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                  Peds



                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                         43 2602     0    0


                                                                                        2102    2645                4747
                                                                                        Out      In                Total
                                                                                          MAIN ST
                                                                                              Cutting Edge
                                                                                A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                        Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                       (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                              File Name                     : MAIN&BOSTON_PM
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code                     : 13
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                              Page No                       :2

                      MAIN ST                          BOSTON AVE                                                                      MAIN ST                                   BOSTON AVE
                        Southbound                         Westbound                                                                     Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                                           App. Total     Left         Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM         0 261          2      0      263  0     0    0    0                                             0               4   331        0       0      335                4        0            3     0           7         605
  04:45 PM         0 265          4      0      269  0     0    0    0                                             0               6   318        0       0      324                3        0            7     0          10         603
  05:00 PM         0 277          3      0      280  0     0    0    0                                             0               3   353        0       0       356               0        0            7     0           7         643
  05:15 PM         0 278          3      0      281  0     0    0    0                                             0               8   300        0       0     308                 0        0           11     0          11       600
 Total Volume      0 1081        12      0    1093   0     0    0    0                                             0           21      1302       0       0    1323                 7        0           28     0          35      2451
% App. Total      0   98.9     1.1              0                                0      0      0       0                    1.6         98.4      0       0                    20           0          80        0
        PHF    .000   .972   .750            .000                      .972   .000   .000   .000    .000      .000        .656          .922   .000    .000      .929        .438        .000        .636     .000      .795          .953

                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                                     Out      In                   Total
                                                                                                     1309    1093                   2402


                                                                                                       12 1081                 0      0
                                                                                                    Right Thru          Left       Peds




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                    68


                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                 Total




                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                                                          BOSTON AVE
                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                               North
                                                                   0
                                                    Peds Right Thru
                                        35
                             BOSTON AVE
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                                                                  In

                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                            28




                                                                                                                                                                           Left



                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                               PM
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                33
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                           Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                      21 1302     0    0


                                                                                                     1109    1323                   2432
                                                                                                     Out      In                   Total
                                                                                                       MAIN ST
                                                                                  Cutting Edge
                                                                    A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                    1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                            Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                            (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                              File Name                     : MARTIN&1ST_AM
                                                                                                                                              Site Code                     :4
                                                                                                                                              Start Date                    : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                              Page No                       :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- AM
                     MARTIN ST                                                1ST AVE                       MARTIN ST                                                 1ST AVE
                     Southbound                                             Westbound                       Northbound                                                Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other              App. Total        Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       0     1  45    11                            57     0       0     0    0        0     0     2    0     0                       2        18     0   1     0                   19          78
 07:15 AM       0     1  81     0                            82     0       0     0    0        0     0     3    0     0                       3        17     0   0     0                   17         102
 07:30 AM       0     1  62     0                            63     0       0     0    0        0     0     0    0     0                       0        22     0   2     0                   24          87
 07:45 AM       0     0  26     0                            26     0       0     0    0        0     0     1    0     0                       1        27     0   0     0                   27          54
     Total      0     3 214    11                           228     0       0     0    0        0     0     6    0     0                       6        84     0   3     0                   87         321

 08:00 AM       0    4    44        0                        48     0      0     0      1           1              2       0   0    0         2         36          0        1     1        38           89
 08:15 AM       0    3    49        1                        53     0      0     0      0           0              1       2   0    0         3         33          0        0     0        33           89
 08:30 AM       0    1    17        0                        18     0      0     0      0           0              2       1   0    1         4         18          0        0     0        18           40
 08:45 AM       0    2    26        0                        28     0      0     0      1           1              2       1   0    1         4         26          0        0     0        26           59
     Total      0   10   136        1                       147     0      0     0      2           2              7       4   0    2        13        113          0        1     1       115          277

Grand Total     0    13 350         12                      375     0      0     0     2            2    7   10                0    2        19  197                0         4     1      202          598
 Apprch %       0   3.5 93.3       3.2                              0      0     0   100              36.8 52.6                0 10.5           97.5                0         2   0.5
  Total %       0   2.2 58.5         2                62.7          0      0     0   0.3          0.3  1.2  1.7                0  0.3       3.2 32.9                0       0.7   0.2     33.8


                                                                                                MARTIN ST
                                                                                      Out          In     Total
                                                                                       207          375     582


                                                                                      350   13                 0      12
                                                                                     Rght Thru          Left       Other
                            559


                                          197
                           Total




                                                                                                                                                     Rght Thru
                                         Left




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                        0


                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                  North
                                                        0
                                         Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                  1ST AVE
                         1ST AVE

                             202
                             In




                                                                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                     6/17/2008 07:00 AM
                                                  4




                                                                                                                                                     Left



                                                                                                                                                                        2




                                                                                     6/17/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                            0
                            357




                                                                                     AM
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                             1




                                                                                                                                                     Other



                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                         2




                                                                                     Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                            7     10    0     2


                                                                                        17           19      36
                                                                                      Out          In     Total
                                                                                                MARTIN ST
                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                     (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                     File Name                     : MARTIN&1ST_AM
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code                     :4
                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date                    : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                     Page No                       :2

                        MARTIN ST                                                  1ST AVE                                                   MARTIN ST                                       1ST AVE
                        Southbound                                                Westbound                                                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                             App. Total     Left         Thru Rght Other       App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       0       1    81     0       82     0  0   0  0                                                     0                0       3     0      0           3            17      0         0      0         17          102
  07:30 AM       0       1    62     0       63     0  0   0  0                                                     0                0       0     0      0           0            22      0         2      0         24          87
  07:45 AM       0       0    26     0       26     0  0   0  0                                                     0                0       1     0      0           1            27      0         0      0         27          54
  08:00 AM       0       4    44     0       48     0  0   0  1                                                     1                2       0     0      0           2            36      0         1      1         38          89
 Total Volume    0       6 213       0      219     0  0   0  1                                                     1                2       4     0      0           6       102          0         3      1       106          332
% App. Total      0    2.7   97.3         0                                0      0      0     100                          33.3         66.7       0      0                  96.2          0       2.8    0.9
       PHF     .000   .375   .657      .000                      .668   .000   .000   .000    .250              .250        .250         .333    .000   .000      .500        .708       .000      .375   .250      .697         .814

                                                                                                             MARTIN ST
                                                                                               Out              In     Total
                                                                                                106              219     325


                                                                                               213     6                         0       0
                                                                                              Rght Thru                   Left       Other




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                321


                                               102
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                 North
                                                             0
                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                         1ST AVE
                             1ST AVE

                                 106
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                                                            In

                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                       3




                                                                                                                                                                            Left



                                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                         AM
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                215
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                            Other



                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                              Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                     2           4   0     0


                                                                                                         9         6      15
                                                                                               Out              In     Total
                                                                                                             MARTIN ST
                                                                                         Cutting Edge
                                                                           A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                           1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                   Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                  (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                            File Name                     : MARTIN&1ST_AM
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code                     :4
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date                    : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                            Page No                       :3

                         MARTIN ST                             1ST AVE                                                            MARTIN ST                                         1ST AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                            Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                              Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other                                App. Total     Left             Other       App. Total     Left                 Other         App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u     t                                                              u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       0       1    81      0        82       0    0     0    0                                        0         0        3     0      0           3          17        0         0      0         17          102
  07:30 AM       0       1    62      0        63       0    0     0    0                                        0         0        0     0      0           0          22        0         2      0         24          87
  07:45 AM       0       0    26      0        26       0    0     0    0                                        0         0        1     0      0           1          27        0         0      0         27          54
  08:00 AM       0       4    44      0        48       0    0     0    1                                        1         2        0     0      0           2          36        0         1      1         38          89
 Total Volume    0       6 213        0     219         0    0     0    1                                        1         2        4     0      0           6       102          0         3      1       106          332
 % App. Total      0    2.7   97.3         0                                0      0      0     100                      33.3   66.7       0      0                  96.2          0       2.8    0.9
        PHF     .000   .375   .657      .000                      .668   .000   .000   .000    .250          .250        .250   .333    .000   .000      .500        .708       .000      .375   .250      .697         .814

                                                                                                          MARTIN ST
                                                                                                Out          In     Total
                                                                                                 106          219     325


                                                                                                213     6                  0    0
                                                                                               Rght Thru               Left Other




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 321


                                                102
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                   Rght Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                              North
                                                              0
                                               Other Rght Thru
                              1ST AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                1ST AVE
                                  106
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                                   In



                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                   Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                          AM
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                 215
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                   2    4   0     0


                                                                                                      9         6      15
                                                                                                Out          In     Total
                                                                                                          MARTIN ST
                                                                                Cutting Edge
                                                                  A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                  1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                          Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                          (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                               File Name                     : MARTIN&1ST_PM
                                                                                                                                               Site Code                     :4
                                                                                                                                               Start Date                    : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                               Page No                       :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- PM
                     MARTIN ST                                              1ST AVE                       MARTIN ST                                                    1ST AVE
                     Southbound                                           Westbound                       Northbound                                                   Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other            App. Total        Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                   App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other             App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       0     1  34     0                          35     0       0     0    0        0     0     3    0     0                          3        65     0   1     2                  68          106
 04:15 PM       0     0  36     0                          36     0       0     0    0        0     0     1    0     0                          1        63     0   0     2                  65          102
 04:30 PM       0     1  32     0                          33     0       0     0    0        0     0     1    0     0                          1        76     0   0     0                  76          110
 04:45 PM       0     0  48     0                          48     0       0     0    0        0     1     0    0     0                          1        78     0   0     2                  80          129
     Total      0     2 150     0                         152     0       0     0    0        0     1     5    0     0                          6       282     0   1     6                 289          447

 05:00 PM       0    0    43       0                       43     0      0     0      1               1              2       3   0   0          5        89          0        1     0        90          139
 05:15 PM       0    0    40       0                       40     0      0     0      0               0              0       2   0   0          2        73          0        0     0        73          115
 05:30 PM       0    0    38       0                       38     0      0     0      0               0              1       0   0   0          1        63          0        1     0        64          103
 05:45 PM       0    1    28       0                       29     0      0     0      0               0              0       0   0   0          0        64          0        0     0        64           93
     Total      0    1   149       0                      150     0      0     0      1               1              3       5   0   0          8       289          0        2     0       291          450

Grand Total     0     3 299        0                      302     0      0     0     1                1    4   10                0   0        14  571                0         3     6      580          897
 Apprch %       0     1   99       0                              0      0     0   100                  28.6 71.4                0   0           98.4                0       0.5     1
  Total %       0   0.3 33.3       0                33.7          0      0     0   0.1              0.1  0.4  1.1                0   0       1.6 63.7                0       0.3   0.7     64.7


                                                                                                  MARTIN ST
                                                                                    Out              In     Total
                                                                                     581              302     883


                                                                                    299     3                    0       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru              Left       Other
                            883


                                        571
                           Total




                                                                                                                                                      Rght Thru
                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                    North
                                                      0
                                       Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                   1ST AVE
                         1ST AVE

                             580
                             In




                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                                   6/17/2008 04:00 PM
                                                3




                                                                                                                                                      Left



                                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                   6/17/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                             0
                            303




                                                                                   PM
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                           6




                                                                                                                                                      Other



                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                   Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          4         10    0     0


                                                                                              6        14      20
                                                                                    Out              In     Total
                                                                                                  MARTIN ST
                                                                                        Cutting Edge
                                                                          A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                          1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                  Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                     (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                     File Name                     : MARTIN&1ST_PM
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code                     :4
                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date                    : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                     Page No                       :2

                        MARTIN ST                                                  1ST AVE                                                   MARTIN ST                                       1ST AVE
                        Southbound                                                Westbound                                                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                             App. Total     Left         Thru Rght Other       App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       0       1    32     0       33     0  0   0  0                                                     0                0       1     0      0           1            76      0         0      0         76         110
  04:45 PM       0       0    48     0       48     0  0   0  0                                                     0                1       0     0      0           1            78      0         0      2         80         129
  05:00 PM       0       0    43     0       43     0  0   0  1                                                     1                2       3     0      0           5            89      0         1      0         90          139
  05:15 PM       0       0    40     0       40     0  0   0  0                                                     0                0       2     0      0           2        73          0         0      0        73          115
 Total Volume    0       1 163       0      164     0  0   0  1                                                     1                3       6     0      0           9       316          0         1      2       319          493
% App. Total      0    0.6   99.4         0                                0      0      0     100                          33.3         66.7       0      0                  99.1          0       0.3    0.6
       PHF     .000   .250   .849      .000                      .854   .000   .000   .000    .250              .250        .375         .500    .000   .000      .450        .888       .000      .250   .250      .886         .887

                                                                                                             MARTIN ST
                                                                                               Out              In     Total
                                                                                                322              164     486


                                                                                               163     1                         0       0
                                                                                              Rght Thru                   Left       Other




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                485


                                               316
                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                 North
                                                             0
                                              Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                         1ST AVE
                             1ST AVE

                                 319
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                                                            In

                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                            Left



                                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                         PM
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                166
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                  2




                                                                                                                                                                            Other



                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                              Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                     3           6   0     0


                                                                                                         2         9      11
                                                                                               Out              In     Total
                                                                                                             MARTIN ST
                                                                                         Cutting Edge
                                                                           A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                           1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                   Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                  (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                            File Name                     : MARTIN&1ST_PM
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code                     :4
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date                    : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                            Page No                       :3

                         MARTIN ST                             1ST AVE                                                            MARTIN ST                                         1ST AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                            Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                              Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other                                App. Total     Left             Other       App. Total     Left                 Other         App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u     t                                                              u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       0       1    32      0        33       0    0     0    0                                        0         0        1     0      0           1          76        0         0      0         76         110
  04:45 PM       0       0    48      0        48       0    0     0    0                                        0         1        0     0      0           1          78        0         0      2         80         129
  05:00 PM       0       0    43      0        43       0    0     0    1                                        1         2        3     0      0           5          89        0         1      0         90          139
  05:15 PM       0       0    40      0        40       0    0     0    0                                        0         0        2     0      0           2        73          0         0      0        73          115
 Total Volume    0       1 163        0     164         0    0     0    1                                        1         3        6     0      0           9       316          0         1      2       319          493
 % App. Total      0    0.6   99.4         0                                0      0      0     100                      33.3   66.7       0      0                  99.1          0       0.3    0.6
        PHF     .000   .250   .849      .000                      .854   .000   .000   .000    .250          .250        .375   .500    .000   .000      .450        .888       .000      .250   .250      .886         .887

                                                                                                          MARTIN ST
                                                                                                Out          In     Total
                                                                                                 322          164     486


                                                                                                163     1                  0    0
                                                                                               Rght Thru               Left Other




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 485


                                                316
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                   Rght Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                              North
                                                              0
                                               Other Rght Thru
                              1ST AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                1ST AVE
                                  319
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                                   In



                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                   Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                          PM
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                 166
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                   3    6   0     0


                                                                                                      2         9      11
                                                                                                Out          In     Total
                                                                                                          MARTIN ST
                                                                                                Cutting Edge
                                                                                  A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                  1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                          Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                         (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                               File Name             : MARITN&KENPRATT_AM
                                                                                                                                               Site Code             :8
                                                                                                                                               Start Date            : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                               Page No               :1


                                                                                                   Groups Printed- AM
                      MARTIN ST                                                        KEN PRATT BLVD                     MARTIN ST                                            KEN PRATT BLVD
                      Southbound                                                          Westbound                       Northbound                                              Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other                             App. Total       Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other               App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                         App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       2     0   1     0                                          3      9     294    5    0     308       1     1    5     0                     7          0    92   4     0                              96         414
 07:15 AM       0     0   0     0                                          0      9     332    2    0     343       0     0    2     0                     2          0 101     0     0                             101         446
 07:30 AM       2     0   0     0                                          2     11     363    0    0     374       3     0    1     0                     4          1 120     4     0                             125         505
 07:45 AM       2     0   1     0                                          3      9     304    2    0     315       1     0    5     0                     6          1 180     5     0                             186         510
     Total      6     0   2     0                                          8     38    1293    9    0 1340          5     1   13     0                    19          2 493    13     0                             508        1875

 08:00 AM       1     0       1                    0                       2     13    288     4      0      305           1          0    2     0         3              1    103                      3    0      107         417
 08:15 AM       2     0       3                    0                       5      6    309     4      0      319           4          0    6     0        10              0    111                      4    0      115         449
 08:30 AM       0     1       2                    0                       3     11    316     1      0      328           8          1    0     0         9              1    119                      3    0      123         463
 08:45 AM       0     0       4                    2                       6     11    293     9      0      313           1          1    3     0         5              3    122                      2    0      127         451
     Total      3     1      10                    2                      16     41    1206   18      0     1265          14          2   11     0        27              5    455                     12    0      472        1780

Grand Total      9     1    12                      2                     24     79 2499       27     0     2605    19              3   24       0        46           7 948                            25   0      980        3655
 Apprch %     37.5   4.2    50                    8.3                             3 95.9        1     0           41.3            6.5 52.2       0                   0.7 96.7                          2.6   0
  Total %      0.2     0   0.3                    0.1                     0.7   2.2 68.4      0.7     0      71.3  0.5            0.1  0.7       0       1.3         0.2 25.9                          0.7   0     26.8


                                                                                                            MARTIN ST
                                                                                                     Out       In     Total
                                                                                                       37        24      61


                                                                                                      12     1            9       2
                                                                                                    Rght Thru      Left       Other
                                                        7
                                           3510
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                  Rght Thru
                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                                    27 2499


                                                                                                                                                                                 981

                                                                                                                                                                                  KEN PRATT BLVD
                            KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                              North
                                                                    948
                                                        Other Rght Thru
                                   980
                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                        2605
                                                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                                    6/17/2008 07:00 AM
                                                                25




                                                                                                                                                                  Left Other




                                                                                                    6/17/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                    79
                           2530




                                                                                                    AM
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                               3586
                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                    Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                      19     3  24     0


                                                                                                      105        46     151
                                                                                                     Out       In     Total
                                                                                                            MARTIN ST
                                                                                                    Cutting Edge
                                                                                      A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                      1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                              Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                                 (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                                File Name               : MARITN&KENPRATT_AM
                                                                                                                                                                Site Code               :8
                                                                                                                                                                Start Date              : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                                Page No                 :2

                        MARTIN ST                                                          KEN PRATT BLVD                                            MARTIN ST                                    KEN PRATT BLVD
                        Southbound                                                            Westbound                                              Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                                     App. Total     Left         Thru Rght Other        App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM       2       0      0    0        2    11 363   0 0                                                         374                  3       0     1       0           4             1    120                     4      0       125          505
  07:45 AM       2       0      1    0        3     9 304   2 0                                                        315                   1       0     5       0           6             1    180                      5     0       186           510
  08:00 AM       1       0      1    0        2    13 288   4 0                                                        305                   1       0     2       0           3             1    103                      3     0       107         417
  08:15 AM       2       0      3    0        5     6 309   4 0                                                        319                   4       0     6       0         10              0    111                      4     0       115         449
 Total Volume    7       0      5    0       12    39 1264 10 0                                                       1313                   9       0    14       0         23              3    514                     16     0       533        1881
% App. Total   58.3      0   41.7                      0                               3   96.3    0.8       0                      39.1            0    60.9       0                   0.6       96.4                   3        0
       PHF     .875   .000   .417                   .000                     .600   .750   .871   .625    .000          .878        .563         .000    .583    .000      .575        .750       .714                .800     .000      .716         .922

                                                                                                                     MARTIN ST
                                                                                                           Out          In     Total
                                                                                                             13           12      25


                                                                                                             5     0                     7       0
                                                                                                          Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                           3
                                             1811
                                            Total




                                                                                                                                                                                     Rght Thru
                                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                                                       10 1264


                                                                                                                                                                                                    535

                                                                                                                                                                                                     KEN PRATT BLVD
                              KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                                         North
                                                                       514
                                                           Other Rght Thru
                                     533
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                                           1313
                                                                                                                                                                                                            In

                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                   16




                                                                                                                                                                                     Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                                       39




                                                                                                     AM
                             1278
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1848
                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                          Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                                 9       0  14     0


                                                                                                             55           23      78
                                                                                                           Out          In     Total
                                                                                                                     MARTIN ST
                                                                                                     Cutting Edge
                                                                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                               Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                              (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                   File Name                : MARITN&KENPRATT_AM
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code                :8
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date               : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                   Page No                  :3

                         MARTIN ST                         KEN PRATT BLVD                                                             MARTIN ST                                KEN PRATT BLVD
                         Southbound                           Westbound                                                               Northbound                                   Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                               Thr Rgh                                                                 Thr Rgh                                     Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other App. Total                                        Left             Other        App. Total     Left            Other App. Total                     Int. Total
                         u      t                             u    t                                                                  u     t                                     u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM       2       0      0     0           2    11 363      0    0     374                                              3        0     1       0           4             1    120                    4      0    125       505
  07:45 AM       2       0      1     0           3     9 304      2    0     315                                              1        0     5       0           6             1    180                     5     0    186        510
  08:00 AM       1       0      1     0           2    13 288      4    0     305                                              1        0     2       0           3             1    103                     3     0    107      417
  08:15 AM       2       0      3     0           5     6 309      4    0     319                                              4        0     6       0         10              0    111                     4     0    115      449
 Total Volume    7       0      5     0        12      39 1264   10     0 1313                                                 9        0    14       0         23              3    514                    16     0    533     1881
 % App. Total   58.3      0   41.7                      0                               3   96.3    0.8       0              39.1      0    60.9       0                   0.6       96.4                  3        0
        PHF     .875   .000   .417                   .000                     .600   .750   .871   .625    .000     .878     .563   .000    .583    .000      .575        .750       .714               .800     .000   .716      .922

                                                                                                                   MARTIN ST
                                                                                                            Out       In     Total
                                                                                                              13        12      25


                                                                                                              5     0          7    0
                                                                                                           Rght Thru       Left Other




                                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                             1811


                                                                3
                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                                        Rght Thru
                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                                          10 1264


                                                                                                                                                                                      535
                               KEN PRATT BLVD




                                                                                                                     North                                                             KEN PRATT BLVD
                                                                        514
                                                            Other Rght Thru
                                      533
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                             1313
                                                                                                                                                                                              In



                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                    16




                                                                                                                                                                        Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                          39




                                                                                                      AM
                              1278
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                    1848
                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                           Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                               9    0  14     0


                                                                                                              55        23      78
                                                                                                            Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                   MARTIN ST
                                                                                            Cutting Edge
                                                                              A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                              1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                      Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                      (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                      File Name              : MARTIN&KENPRATT_PM
                                                                                                                                      Site Code              :8
                                                                                                                                      Start Date             : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                      Page No                :1


                                                                                                Groups Printed- PM
                      MARTIN ST                                                    KEN PRATT BLVVD                     MARTIN ST                                       KEN PRATT BLVVD
                      Southbound                                                       Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other                         App. Total       Left    Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other          App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                        App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       6     1   0     0                                      7     24     190     3    0     217       9     1    9     0               19          1 294     5     0                           300          543
 04:15 PM      15     4   0     0                                     19     17     162     1    0     180       7     3    8     0               18          6 281     8     0                           295          512
 04:30 PM       9     2   1     0                                     12     20     154     5    0     179      14     3    9     0               26          2 266     6     0                           274          491
 04:45 PM      14     0   1     0                                     15     28     175     1    0     204       7     1   13     0               21          4 328     5     0                           337          577
     Total     44     7   2     0                                     53     89     681   10     0     780      37     8   39     0               84         13 1169   24     0                          1206         2123

 05:00 PM      13    1          1               0                     15     23     139     4      0      166      10        2   10     0         22              3     359                   10    0     372          575
 05:15 PM      11    2          0               0                     13     28     169     1      0      198       3        0   20     1         24              0     426                    5    0     431          666
 05:30 PM      16    1          0               0                     17     20     154     6      0      180       7        0   11     0         18              1     368                    6    0     375          590
 05:45 PM      23    2          1               0                     26     24     149     4      0      177       5        1   15     0         21              1     328                    8    0     337          561
     Total     63    6          2               0                     71     95     611    15      0      721      25        3   56     1         85              5    1481                   29    0    1515         2392

Grand Total    107   13     4                   0                     124  184 1292         25     0     1501    62       11   95        1      169           18 2650                          53   0    2721         4515
 Apprch %     86.3 10.5   3.2                   0                         12.3 86.1        1.7     0           36.7      6.5 56.2      0.6                   0.7 97.4                         1.9   0
  Total %      2.4  0.3   0.1                   0                     2.7  4.1 28.6        0.6     0      33.2  1.4      0.2  2.1        0       3.7         0.4 58.7                         1.2   0     60.3


                                                                                                         MARTIN ST
                                                                                                  Out       In     Total
                                                                                                    54       124     178


                                                                                                    4   13       107     0
                                                                                                 Rght Thru      Left Other
                                         4079


                                                      18
                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                          Rght Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                        2852
                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                            25 1292




                                                                                                                                                                         KEN PRATT BLVVD
                          KEN PRATT BLVVD




                                                                                                           North
                                                            53 2650
                                                    Other Rght Thru
                                 2721
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                               1501
                                                                                                                                                                                In




                                                                                                 6/17/2008 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                          Left Other




                                                                                                 6/17/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                           184
                          1358




                                                                                                 PM
                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                       4353
                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                 Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                   62   11   95     1


                                                                                                   250       169     419
                                                                                                  Out       In     Total
                                                                                                         MARTIN ST
                                                                                                   Cutting Edge
                                                                                     A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                     1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                             Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                             (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                       File Name               : MARTIN&KENPRATT_PM
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code               :8
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date              : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                       Page No                 :2

                        MARTIN ST                                                         KEN PRATT BLVVD                                   MARTIN ST                                    KEN PRATT BLVVD
                        Southbound                                                           Westbound                                      Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                                  App. Total     Left   Thru Rght Other        App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM     14        0      1    0       15    28 175   1 0                                                      204           7        1    13       0         21              4     328                   5      0       337          577
  05:00 PM     13        1      1    0       15    23 139   4 0                                                      166          10        2    10       0         22              3     359                   10     0       372          575
  05:15 PM     11        2      0    0       13    28 169   1 0                                                      198           3        0    20       1         24              0     426                    5     0       431           666
  05:30 PM     16        1      0    0       17    20 154   6 0                                                      180           7        0    11       0         18              1     368                    6     0      375          590
 Total Volume  54        4      2    0       60    99 637  12 0                                                      748          27        3    54       1         85              8    1481                   26     0     1515         2408
% App. Total     90    6.7    3.3                     0                            13.2    85.2    1.6       0                   31.8    3.5    63.5     1.2                   0.5        97.8               1.7        0
       PHF     .844   .500   .500                  .000                     .882   .884    .910   .500    .000       .917        .675   .375    .675    .250      .885        .500        .869              .650     .000      .879         .904

                                                                                                                  MARTIN ST
                                                                                                           Out       In     Total
                                                                                                             23        60      83


                                                                                                             2     4             54     0
                                                                                                          Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                          8
                                            2181
                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                                                          1589
                                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                                              12




                                                                                                                                                                                           KEN PRATT BLVVD
                             KEN PRATT BLVVD




                                                                                                                      North
                                                                  26 1481
                                                          Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                  637
                                    1515
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                                  In

                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                   748
                                                                                                                                                                            Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                              99




                                                                                                     PM
                              666
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                         2337
                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                            27     3  54     1


                                                                                                            129        85     214
                                                                                                           Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                  MARTIN ST
                                                                                                    Cutting Edge
                                                                                      A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                      1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                              Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                             (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                  File Name                : MARTIN&KENPRATT_PM
                                                                                                                                                  Site Code                :8
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date               : 6/17/2008
                                                                                                                                                  Page No                  :3

                         MARTIN ST                         KEN PRATT BLVVD                                                           MARTIN ST                                KEN PRATT BLVVD
                         Southbound                           Westbound                                                              Northbound                                   Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                               Thr Rgh                                                                Thr Rgh                                     Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left           Other App. Total                                       Left             Other        App. Total     Left            Other App. Total                     Int. Total
                         u      t                             u    t                                                                 u     t                                     u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM     14        0      1     0        15      28 175      1    0     204                                             7        1    13       0         21              4    328                    5      0    337       577
  05:00 PM     13        1      1     0        15      23 139      4    0     166                                            10        2    10       0         22              3    359                    10     0    372       575
  05:15 PM     11        2      0     0        13      28 169      1    0     198                                             3        0    20       1         24              0    426                     5     0     431       666
  05:30 PM     16        1      0     0        17      20 154      6    0     180                                             7        0    11       0         18              1    368                     6     0     375     590
 Total Volume  54        4      2     0        60      99 637     12    0     748                                            27        3    54       1         85              8    1481                   26     0    1515    2408
 % App. Total     90    6.7    3.3                     0                            13.2   85.2    1.6       0              31.8    3.5    63.5     1.2                   0.5        97.8               1.7        0
        PHF     .844   .500   .500                  .000                     .882   .884   .910   .500    .000     .917     .675   .375    .675    .250      .885        .500        .869              .650     .000   .879      .904

                                                                                                                  MARTIN ST
                                                                                                           Out       In     Total
                                                                                                             23        60      83


                                                                                                             2     4        54     0
                                                                                                          Rght Thru       Left Other




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                            2181


                                                               8
                                            Total




                                                                                                                                                                       Rght Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                                     1589
                                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                                         12
                              KEN PRATT BLVVD




                                                                                                                    North                                                             KEN PRATT BLVVD
                                                                   26 1481
                                                           Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                             637
                                     1515
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                                             748




                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                                       Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                         99




                                                                                                     PM
                               666
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                    2337
                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                            27     3  54     1


                                                                                                            129        85     214
                                                                                                           Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                  MARTIN ST
                                                                                            Cutting Edge
                                                                              A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                              1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                      Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                     (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                   File Name                     : SUNSET&BOSTON_AM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code                     : 10
                                                                                                                                   Start Date                    : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                   Page No                       :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- AM
                     SUNSET ST                                                       BOSTON AVE                       SUNSET ST                                    BOSTON AVE
                     Southbound                                                       Westbound                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other                         App. Total       Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other     App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                        App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       4   52    4     0                                      60    25     18     3    0        46     4   18    10     0         32           2    18  16     0                             36          174
 07:15 AM       2   66    6     0                                      74    31     16     4    0        51     4   18    10     0         32           1    20  12     0                             33          190
 07:30 AM      13   67    4     0                                      84    35     25     3    0        63     9   16    24     0         49           3    26  16     0                             45          241
 07:45 AM       4   64    5     0                                      73    38     27     6    0        71     5   16    12     0         33           3    31  17     0                             51          228
     Total     23 249    19     0                                     291   129     86   16     0     231      22   68    56     0        146           9    95  61     0                            165          833

 08:00 AM       1    58      5                  0                      64    32     26     7      0        65      11    23   17   0       51             3        37                    12   0       52         232
 08:15 AM       5    56      2                  0                      63    28     27     4      0        59      12    40   23   0       75             2        27                    13   0       42         239
 08:30 AM       7    73      5                  0                      85    39     29     2      0        70       6    34   18   0       58             3        28                     8   0       39         252
 08:45 AM       5    75      9                  0                      89    33     37     3      0        73      12    39   22   0       73             4        31                    11   0       46         281
     Total     18   262     21                  0                     301   132    119    16      0       267      41   136   80   0      257            12       123                    44   0      179        1004

Grand Total   41 511       40                   0                      261 205
                                                                      592                  32     0       498   63 204 136         0      403           21 218 105                            0      344        1837
 Apprch %     6.9 86.3    6.8                   0                     52.4 41.2           6.4     0           15.6 50.6 33.7       0                   6.1 63.4 30.5                          0
  Total %     2.2 27.8    2.2                   0                32.2 14.2 11.2           1.7     0      27.1  3.4 11.1  7.4       0     21.9          1.1 11.9  5.7                          0     18.7


                                                                                                        SUNSET ST
                                                                                                 Out       In     Total
                                                                                                  257       592     849


                                                                                                  40  511         41     0
                                                                                                Rght Thru       Left Other
                                         652


                                                      21
                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                    Rght Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                      32


                                                                                                                                                                   395




                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                                      BOSTON AVE
                             BOSTON AVE




                                                                218
                                                    Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                          205
                                  344
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                          498




                                                                                                6/18/2008 07:00 AM
                                                           105




                                                                                                                                                    Left Other




                                                                                                6/18/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                     261
                           308




                                                                                                AM
                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                  893
                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                  63  204  136     0


                                                                                                  877       403    1280
                                                                                                 Out       In     Total
                                                                                                        SUNSET ST
                                                                                                   Cutting Edge
                                                                                     A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                     1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                             Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                            (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                      File Name                       : SUNSET&BOSTON_AM
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code                       : 10
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date                      : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                      Page No                         :2

                        SUNSET ST                                                          BOSTON AVE                                      SUNSET ST                                    BOSTON AVE
                        Southbound                                                          Westbound                                      Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                                 App. Total     Left   Thru Rght Other      App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM       1     58       5    0       64    32 26    7 0                                                       65         11     23     17       0        51              3      37                    12     0         52         232
  08:15 AM       5     56       2    0       63    28 27    4 0                                                       59         12     40     23       0        75              2      27                    13     0        42          239
  08:30 AM       7     73       5    0       85    39 29    2 0                                                       70          6     34     18       0       58               3      28                     8     0        39          252
  08:45 AM       5     75       9    0       89    33 37    3 0                                                       73         12     39     22       0       73               4      31                    11     0        46           281
 Total Volume  18 262         21     0      301 132 119    16 0                                                     267          41    136     80       0      257            12       123                    44     0       179        1004
% App. Total      6     87      7                     0                            49.4   44.6      6       0                     16   52.9   31.1      0                   6.7        68.7               24.6        0
       PHF     .643   .873   .583                  .000                     .846   .846   .804   .571    .000       .914        .854   .850   .870   .000      .857        .750        .831               .846     .000      .861         .893

                                                                                                                 SUNSET ST
                                                                                                          Out       In     Total
                                                                                                           164       301     465


                                                                                                           21  262              18     0
                                                                                                         Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                            360


                                                            12
                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                         Rght Thru
                                                          Left




                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                                           16


                                                                                                                                                                                        221
                                                                                                                     North
                                                                                                                                                                                           BOSTON AVE
                                BOSTON AVE




                                                                      123
                                                          Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                               119
                                     179
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                               In

                                                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                267
                                                                  44




                                                                                                                                                                         Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                          132




                                                                                                    AM
                              181
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                       488
                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                         Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                           41  136   80     0


                                                                                                           438       257     695
                                                                                                          Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                 SUNSET ST
                                                                                                    Cutting Edge
                                                                                      A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                      1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                              Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                             (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                       File Name                       : SUNSET&BOSTON_AM
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                       : 10
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date                      : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                       Page No                         :3

                        SUNSET ST                           BOSTON AVE                                                                   SUNSET ST                                       BOSTON AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                                    Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                                      Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left          Other                                         App. Total     Left             Other      App. Total     Left                  Other                    App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u    t                                                                       u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM       1     58       5     0        64      32   26    7    0                                               65         11     23     17      0         51              3      37                    12     0         52         232
  08:15 AM       5     56       2     0        63      28   27    4    0                                               59         12     40     23      0         75              2      27                    13     0        42          239
  08:30 AM       7     73       5     0        85      39   29    2    0                                               70          6     34     18      0        58               3      28                     8     0        39          252
  08:45 AM       5     75       9     0        89      33   37    3    0                                               73         12     39     22      0        73               4      31                    11     0        46           281
 Total Volume  18 262         21      0     301 132 119         16     0                                             267          41    136     80      0       257            12       123                    44     0       179        1004
 % App. Total      6     87      7                     0                            49.4   44.6      6       0                     16   52.9   31.1      0                   6.7        68.7               24.6        0
        PHF     .643   .873   .583                  .000                     .846   .846   .804   .571    .000       .914        .854   .850   .870   .000      .857        .750        .831               .846     .000      .861         .893

                                                                                                                  SUNSET ST
                                                                                                           Out       In     Total
                                                                                                            164       301     465


                                                                                                            21  262              18     0
                                                                                                          Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                             360


                                                             12
                                            Total




                                                                                                                                                                          Rght Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                            16


                                                                                                                                                                                         221

                                                                                                                      North
                                 BOSTON AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                            BOSTON AVE
                                                                       123
                                                           Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                119
                                      179
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                                267




                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                   44




                                                                                                                                                                          Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                           132




                                                                                                     AM
                               181
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        488
                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                            41  136   80     0


                                                                                                            438       257     695
                                                                                                           Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                  SUNSET ST
                                                                                            Cutting Edge
                                                                              A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                              1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                      Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                     (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                    File Name                       : SUNSET&BOSTON_PM
                                                                                                                                    Site Code                       : 10
                                                                                                                                    Start Date                      : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                    Page No                         :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- PM
                     SUNSET ST                                                       BOSTON AVE                       SUNSET ST                                       BOSTON AVE
                     Southbound                                                       Westbound                       Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru Rght Other                         App. Total       Left   Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other        App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                        App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       2   27    3     0                                      32    30     35     4    0        69    18   94    43     0           155           8    41  11     0                             60         316
 04:15 PM       3   42    7     0                                      52    20     38     4    0        62     7   88    55     0           150          10    52   5     0                             67         331
 04:30 PM       2   47    3     0                                      52    26     37     3    0        66    10 107     44     0           161          11    34   3     0                             48         327
 04:45 PM       1   40    4     0                                      45    24     19     5    0        48    17   85    40     0           142           9    45   4     0                             58         293
     Total      8 156    17     0                                     181   100    129   16     0     245      52 374 182        0           608          38 172    23     0                            233        1267

 05:00 PM       4    47      5                  0                      56    29     29     1      0        59      12    93    38    0       143             8        42                     5   0       55         313
 05:15 PM       6    44      6                  0                      56    38     24     6      0        68      18    78    39    0       135             7        43                     6   0       56         315
 05:30 PM       5    63      1                  0                      69    22     19     6      0        47       7    88    54    3       152             4        40                    11   0       55         323
 05:45 PM       5    40      2                  0                      47    22     23     4      0        49      11    76    31    0       118             5        35                     3   0       43         257
     Total     20   194     14                  0                     228   111     95    17      0       223      48   335   162    3       548            24       160                    25   0      209        1208

Grand Total   28 350       31                   0                      211 224
                                                                      409                  33     0       468     100 709 344         3    1156            62 332    48                          0      442        2475
 Apprch %     6.8 85.6    7.6                   0                     45.1 47.9           7.1     0               8.7 61.3 29.8     0.3                    14 75.1 10.9                          0
  Total %     1.1 14.1    1.3                   0                16.5  8.5  9.1           1.3     0      18.9       4 28.6 13.9     0.1     46.7          2.5 13.4  1.9                          0     17.9


                                                                                                        SUNSET ST
                                                                                                 Out       In     Total
                                                                                                  804       409    1213


                                                                                                  31  350         28     0
                                                                                                Rght Thru       Left Other
                                         797


                                                      62
                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                       Rght Thru
                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                         33


                                                                                                                                                                      704




                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                                         BOSTON AVE
                             BOSTON AVE




                                                                332
                                                    Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                             224
                                  442
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                             468




                                                                                                6/18/2008 04:00 PM
                                                            48




                                                                                                                                                       Left Other




                                                                                                6/18/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                        211
                           355




                                                                                                PM
                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                    1172
                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                 100  709  344     3


                                                                                                  609      1156    1765
                                                                                                 Out        In    Total
                                                                                                        SUNSET ST
                                                                                                   Cutting Edge
                                                                                     A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                     1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                             Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                            (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                            File Name                       : SUNSET&BOSTON_PM
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code                       : 10
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date                      : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                            Page No                         :2

                        SUNSET ST                                                          BOSTON AVE                                            SUNSET ST                                    BOSTON AVE
                        Southbound                                                          Westbound                                            Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Rght Other App. Total Left Thru Rght Other                                                 App. Total     Left       Thru Rght Other        App. Total     Left Thru Rght Other                           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM       2     27       3    0       32    30 35    4 0                                                       69             18      94      43       0      155             8        41                    11     0         60         316
  04:15 PM       3     42       7    0       52    20 38    4 0                                                      62               7      88      55       0      150            10        52                     5     0         67          331
  04:30 PM       2     47       3    0       52    26 37    3 0                                                      66              10     107      44       0      161            11        34                     3     0        48         327
  04:45 PM       1     40       4    0       45    24 19    5 0                                                      48              17      85      40       0      142             9        45                     4     0        58         293
 Total Volume    8 156        17     0      181 100 129    16 0                                                     245              52     374     182       0      608            38       172                    23     0       233        1267
% App. Total    4.4   86.2    9.4                     0                            40.8   52.7    6.5       0                    8.6        61.5    29.9      0                  16.3        73.8                9.9        0
       PHF     .667   .830   .607                  .000                     .870   .833   .849   .800    .000       .888        .722        .874    .827   .000      .944        .864        .827               .523     .000      .869         .957

                                                                                                                 SUNSET ST
                                                                                                          Out       In     Total
                                                                                                           428       181     609


                                                                                                           17  156                   8       0
                                                                                                         Rght Thru            Left       Other




                                                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                            431


                                                            38
                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                               Rght Thru
                                                          Left




                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                 16


                                                                                                                                                                                              362
                                                                                                                     North
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BOSTON AVE
                                BOSTON AVE




                                                                      172
                                                          Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                     129
                                     233
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                                     In

                                                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                      245
                                                                  23




                                                                                                                                                                               Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                                100




                                                                                                    PM
                              198
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                             607
                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                         Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                           52  374  182     0


                                                                                                           279       608     887
                                                                                                          Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                 SUNSET ST
                                                                                                    Cutting Edge
                                                                                      A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                                                                      1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707
                                                                                              Denver, Colorado 80222
                                                                                                             (303) 688-0676

                                                                                                                                                       File Name                       : SUNSET&BOSTON_PM
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code                       : 10
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date                      : 6/18/2008
                                                                                                                                                       Page No                         :3

                        SUNSET ST                           BOSTON AVE                                                                   SUNSET ST                                       BOSTON AVE
                         Southbound                          Westbound                                                                    Northbound                                       Eastbound
                      Thr Rgh                              Thr Rgh                                                                      Thr Rgh                                         Thr Rgh
 Start Time Left                    Other  App. Total Left          Other                                         App. Total     Left             Other      App. Total     Left                  Other                    App. Total   Int. Total
                         u      t                            u    t                                                                       u     t                                         u     t
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM       2     27       3     0        32      30   35    4    0                                               69         18     94     43      0       155             8        41                    11     0         60         316
  04:15 PM       3     42       7     0        52      20   38    4    0                                              62           7     88     55      0       150            10        52                     5     0         67          331
  04:30 PM       2     47       3     0        52      26   37    3    0                                              66          10    107     44      0       161            11        34                     3     0        48         327
  04:45 PM       1     40       4     0        45      24   19    5    0                                              48          17     85     40      0       142             9        45                     4     0        58         293
 Total Volume    8 156        17      0     181 100 129         16     0                                             245          52    374    182      0       608            38       172                    23     0       233        1267
 % App. Total    4.4   86.2    9.4                     0                            40.8   52.7    6.5       0                    8.6   61.5   29.9      0                  16.3        73.8                9.9        0
        PHF     .667   .830   .607                  .000                     .870   .833   .849   .800    .000       .888        .722   .874   .827   .000      .944        .864        .827               .523     .000      .869         .957

                                                                                                                  SUNSET ST
                                                                                                           Out       In     Total
                                                                                                            428       181     609


                                                                                                            17  156                8    0
                                                                                                          Rght Thru            Left Other




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                             431


                                                             38
                                            Total




                                                                                                                                                                          Rght Thru
                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                            16


                                                                                                                                                                                         362

                                                                                                                      North
                                 BOSTON AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                            BOSTON AVE
                                                                       172
                                                           Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                129
                                      233
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                                245




                                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM
                                                                   23




                                                                                                                                                                          Left Other
                                                                                                                                                                           100




                                                                                                     PM
                               198
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        607
                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                                            52  374  182     0


                                                                                                            279       608     887
                                                                                                           Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                  SUNSET ST
                                                     Cutting Edge                                   Page 1
                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707                 Site Code: 4
                                               Denver, Colorado 80222                         Station ID: 4
                                                                                  1ST AVENUE E/O MAIN ST


  Start    17-Jun-08
  Time        Tue       EB        WB                                                               Total
12:00 AM                    16       16                                                                 32
    01:00                    8        4                                                                 12
    02:00                    9        7                                                                 16
    03:00                    7        7                                                                 14
    04:00                   19       15                                                                 34
    05:00                   20       85                                                                105
    06:00                   64      204                                                                268
    07:00                  105      265                                                               370
    08:00                  126      151                                                                277
    09:00                  123      182                                                                305
    10:00                  135      174                                                                309
    11:00                  184      162                                                                346
12:00 PM                   195      174                                                                369
    01:00                  208      162                                                                370
    02:00                  220      166                                                                386
    03:00                  274      207                                                                481
    04:00                  293       172                                                               465
    05:00                  319       170                                                              489
    06:00                  209       103                                                               312
    07:00                  119        77                                                               196
    08:00                  101        69                                                               170
    09:00                   62        47                                                               109
    10:00                   54        20                                                                74
    11:00                   21        15                                                                36
     Total                2891      2654                                                              5545
 Percent                52.1%     47.9%
AM Peak                  11:00     07:00                                                             07:00
      Vol.                 184       265                                                               370
PM Peak                  17:00     15:00                                                             17:00
      Vol.                 319       207                                                               489
   Grand
                          2891     2654                                                               5545
     Total
 Percent                52.1%     47.9%

    ADT          Not Calculated
                                                  Cutting Edge                                          Page 1
                                    A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                    1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707                        Site Code: 2
                                            Denver, Colorado 80222                                Station ID: 2
                                                                               3RD AVE BET SUNSET & LASHLEY


 Start       17-Jun-0
 Time          Tue        EB
12:00 AM                      20
    01:00                      7
    02:00                     11
    03:00                     15
    04:00                      8
    05:00                     32
    06:00                     88
    07:00                    182
    08:00                    204
    09:00                    224
    10:00                    226
    11:00                    278
12:00 PM                     300
    01:00                    286
    02:00                    352
    03:00                    364
    04:00                    350
    05:00                    266
    06:00                    208
    07:00                    169
    08:00                    124
    09:00                     89
    10:00                     58
    11:00                     20
     Total                  3881
AM Peak                    11:00
      Vol.                   278
PM Peak                    15:00
      Vol.                   364
   Grand
                            3881
     Total

     ADT           Not Calculated
                                                  Cutting Edge                                          Page 1
                                    A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                    1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707                      Site Code: 2.5
                                            Denver, Colorado 80222                              Station ID: 2.5
                                                                               3RD AVE BET SUNSET & LASHLEY


 Start       17-Jun-0
 Time          Tue        WB
12:00 AM                      25
    01:00                     13
    02:00                     14
    03:00                     17
    04:00                     12
    05:00                     35
    06:00                     98
    07:00                    185
    08:00                    206
    09:00                    204
    10:00                    210
    11:00                    330
12:00 PM                     366
    01:00                    360
    02:00                    310
    03:00                    318
    04:00                    326
    05:00                    354
    06:00                    263
    07:00                    189
    08:00                    147
    09:00                    116
    10:00                     82
    11:00                     31
     Total                  4211
AM Peak                    11:00
      Vol.                   330
PM Peak                    12:00
      Vol.                   366
   Grand
                            4211
     Total

     ADT           Not Calculated
                                                     Cutting Edge                                           Page 1
                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707                        Site Code: 5
                                               Denver, Colorado 80222                                Station ID: 5
                                                                                  KEN PRATT PKWY BET 3RD & MAIN


  Start    17-Jun-08
  Time        Tue       EB        WB                                                                       Total
12:00 AM                    92       60                                                                        152
    01:00                   50       28                                                                          78
    02:00                   36       27                                                                          63
    03:00                   30       40                                                                          70
    04:00                   36       88                                                                        124
    05:00                  118      334                                                                        452
    06:00                  305     1003                                                                      1308
    07:00                  565    1480                                                                       2045
    08:00                  524     1465                                                                      1989
    09:00                  582      985                                                                      1567
    10:00                  684      834                                                                      1518
    11:00                  821      782                                                                      1603
12:00 PM                   924      883                                                                      1807
    01:00                  545       467                                                                     1012
    02:00                 1001       778                                                                     1779
    03:00                 1266       728                                                                     1994
    04:00                 1504       828                                                                     2332
    05:00                1797        852                                                                     2649
    06:00                 1281       672                                                                     1953
    07:00                  882       474                                                                     1356
    08:00                  652       378                                                                     1030
    09:00                  550       260                                                                      810
    10:00                  308       284                                                                      592
    11:00                  181       117                                                                      298
     Total              14734     13847                                                                     28581
 Percent                51.6%     48.4%
AM Peak                  11:00     07:00                                                                     07:00
      Vol.                 821      1480                                                                      2045
PM Peak                  17:00     12:00                                                                     17:00
      Vol.                1797       883                                                                      2649
   Grand
                         14734    13847                                                                     28581
     Total
 Percent                51.6%     48.4%

    ADT          Not Calculated
                                                  Cutting Edge                                   Page 1
                                    A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                    1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707               Site Code: 3.5
                                            Denver, Colorado 80222                       Station ID: 3.5
                                                                               MAIN ST N/O DELEWARE


 Start       17-Jun-0
 Time          Tue        NB
12:00 AM                     108
    01:00                     52
    02:00                     45
    03:00                     29
    04:00                     42
    05:00                    102
    06:00                    276
    07:00                    566
    08:00                    728
    09:00                    764
    10:00                    836
    11:00                    913
12:00 PM                     982
    01:00                   1032
    02:00                   1017
    03:00                   1184
    04:00                   1386
    05:00                  1418
    06:00                    1082
    07:00                     770
    08:00                     622
    09:00                     482
    10:00                     334
    11:00                     200
     Total                 14970
AM Peak                     11:00
      Vol.                    913
PM Peak                     17:00
      Vol.                   1418
   Grand
                           14970
     Total

     ADT           Not Calculated
                                                  Cutting Edge                                   Page 1
                                    A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                    1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707                 Site Code: 3
                                            Denver, Colorado 80222                         Station ID: 3
                                                                               MAIN ST N/O DELEWARE


 Start       17-Jun-0
 Time          Tue        SB
12:00 AM                      78
    01:00                     32
    02:00                     40
    03:00                     34
    04:00                    103
    05:00                    374
    06:00                    951
    07:00                  1324
    08:00                   1079
    09:00                   1025
    10:00                   1000
    11:00                   1109
12:00 PM                    1102
    01:00                  1163
    02:00                    1054
    03:00                    1018
    04:00                    1138
    05:00                    1100
    06:00                     868
    07:00                     657
    08:00                     602
    09:00                     405
    10:00                     235
    11:00                     120
     Total                 16611
AM Peak                     07:00
      Vol.                   1324
PM Peak                     13:00
      Vol.                   1163
   Grand
                           16611
     Total

     ADT           Not Calculated
                                                     Cutting Edge                                        Page 1
                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707                      Site Code: 1
                                               Denver, Colorado 80222                              Station ID: 1
                                                                                  MARTIN BET 3RD & KEN PRATT


  Start    17-Jun-08
  Time        Tue       NB        SB                                                                    Total
12:00 AM                      0         0                                                                        0
    01:00                     0         0                                                                        0
    02:00                     0         0                                                                        0
    03:00                     0         0                                                                        0
    04:00                     0         0                                                                        0
    05:00                     1         2                                                                        3
    06:00                     0         0                                                                        0
    07:00                     0         1                                                                        1
    08:00                     2         6                                                                        8
    09:00                     7         6                                                                       13
    10:00                    9         11                                                                   20
    11:00                     5         5                                                                       10
12:00 PM                      4         4                                                                        8
    01:00                     5         4                                                                        9
    02:00                     7        15                                                                   22
    03:00                    10        7                                                                     17
    04:00                    6         3                                                                      9
    05:00                    0         0                                                                      0
    06:00                    1         1                                                                      2
    07:00                    0         0                                                                      0
    08:00                    0         0                                                                      0
    09:00                    1         1                                                                      2
    10:00                    0         0                                                                      0
    11:00                    0         0                                                                      0
     Total                  58        66                                                                    124
 Percent                46.8%     53.2%
AM Peak                  10:00     10:00                                                                  10:00
      Vol.                   9        11                                                                     20
PM Peak                  15:00     14:00                                                                  14:00
      Vol.                  10        15                                                                     22
   Grand
                             58        66                                                                   124
     Total
 Percent                46.8%     53.2%

    ADT          Not Calculated
                                                     Cutting Edge                                  Page 1
                                       A Division of Navjoy Consulting Services
                                       1385 S. Colorado Boulevard Suite A-707                Site Code: 6
                                               Denver, Colorado 80222                        Station ID: 6
                                                                                  MARTIN ST S/O 5TH AVE


  Start    17-Jun-08
  Time        Tue       NB        SB                                                              Total
12:00 AM                      8         8                                                              16
    01:00                     7         6                                                              13
    02:00                     3         5                                                               8
    03:00                     2         5                                                               7
    04:00                     0         6                                                               6
    05:00                     6        24                                                              30
    06:00                    31        57                                                              88
    07:00                    37        63                                                             100
    08:00                    38        55                                                              93
    09:00                    51        55                                                             106
    10:00                    54        69                                                             123
    11:00                    70        54                                                            124
12:00 PM                    74         60                                                             134
    01:00                   79         56                                                             135
    02:00                   81         66                                                             147
    03:00                   99         67                                                             166
    04:00                  101         78                                                             179
    05:00                  118         95                                                            213
    06:00                  101        67                                                              168
    07:00                   64        58                                                              122
    08:00                   70        52                                                              122
    09:00                   57        58                                                              115
    10:00                   31        32                                                               63
    11:00                   17         7                                                               24
     Total                1199      1103                                                             2302
 Percent                52.1%     47.9%
AM Peak                  11:00     10:00                                                            11:00
      Vol.                  70        69                                                              124
PM Peak                  17:00     17:00                                                            17:00
      Vol.                 118        95                                                              213
   Grand
                          1199     1103                                                              2302
     Total
 Percent                52.1%     47.9%

    ADT          Not Calculated
                                                                          Appendix B
                                                       Level of Service Analysis Worksheets




Short Elliott Hendrickson Inc.
Martin Street Extension Traffic Study ­ Final Report                          LONGM - 103289
Longmont, Colorado                                                               May 15, 2009
AM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                         9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        65     214       26        39    527       32        20       25        0      75       88        215
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5                       5.5        5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00                      1.00       1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    0.99                       1.00                      1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.98                      0.98       1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3486              1770    3501                       1817                      1826       1583
Flt Permitted                     0.29    1.00               0.56    1.00                       0.80                      0.85       1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  535    3486              1038    3501                       1494                      1578       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.71     0.74    0.81      0.75    0.79    0.62       0.63    0.78      1.00    0.75    0.59       0.80
Adj. Flow (vph)                     92     289       32        52    667       52         32      32         0     100     149        269
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0       12       0         0       8       0          0       0         0       0       0        171
Lane Group Flow (vph)               92     309        0        52    711        0          0      64         0       0     249         98
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm               Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                  6
Actuated Green, G (s)             30.7    26.8              28.7     25.8                      23.6                       23.6      23.6
Effective Green, g (s)            30.7    26.8              28.7     25.8                      23.6                       23.6      23.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.45    0.39               0.42    0.38                      0.34                       0.34      0.34
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0     6.0                       5.5                        5.5       5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                       3.0                        3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 309    1358               464    1313                        512                        541       543
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.02    0.09              0.00    c0.20
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.12                       0.04                              0.04                      c0.16      0.06
v/c Ratio                         0.30    0.23               0.11    0.54                      0.12                       0.46      0.18
Uniform Delay, d1                 11.5    14.1               12.0    16.9                      15.5                       17.6      15.8
Progression Factor                1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00                      1.00                       1.00      1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.5     0.1                0.1     0.5                       0.5                        2.8       0.7
Delay (s)                         12.0    14.2               12.1    17.3                      16.0                       20.4      16.5
Level of Service                     B       B                  B       B                         B                          C         B
Approach Delay (s)                        13.7                       17.0                      16.0                       18.4
Approach LOS                                 B                          B                         B                          B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           16.6        HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           68.8        Sum of lost time (s)                     15.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 54.1%         ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                       2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                    9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       17     276      26     182     638        12       38       7     38     11        9        42
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                       Stop                   Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                         0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.71   0.91    0.41     0.89   0.90      0.75      0.50   0.58    0.73   0.92    0.28      0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                24    303      63     204     709        16        76     12      52     12      32        56
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              725                     367                       1218    1517    183    1384   1540        362
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  725                     367                       1218    1517    183    1384   1540        362
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.5     6.5     6.9    7.5    6.5         6.9
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                         3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5     4.0        3.3
p0 queue free %                      97                      83                           2    87      94     84      65         91
cM capacity (veh/h)                 874                    1188                         78     95     828     74      92        634
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    EB 3    WB 1    WB 2     WB 3       NB 1   NB 2    SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                          24    202     165      204     473      252        88     52      44     56
Volume Left                           24      0       0      204        0        0       76      0      12      0
Volume Right                           0      0      63        0        0      16         0     52       0     56
cSH                                  874   1700    1700    1188    1700     1700         80    828      86    634
Volume to Capacity                  0.03   0.12    0.10     0.17    0.28     0.15      1.10   0.06    0.51   0.09
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      0       0       16        0        0      157      5      55      7
Control Delay (s)                    9.2    0.0     0.0      8.7      0.0      0.0    224.6    9.6    83.8   11.2
Lane LOS                               A                       A                          F      A       F      B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.6                     1.9                      144.7           43.2
Approach LOS                                                                              F              E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                       17.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 40.5%        ICU Level of Service                     A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                       3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       102     3        2       4       6     213
Sign Control                        Free                   Stop   Yield
Grade                                0%                     0%      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.71   0.38    0.25    0.33   0.38     0.66
Hourly flow rate (vph)               144      8       8      12      16    323
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0            299    291     295        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0            299    291     295        0
tC, single (s)                       4.1             7.1    6.5     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2             3.5    4.0     4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                       91             98     98      97       70
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623            419    564     562     1085
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NB 1    SB 1    SB 2
Volume Total                         152     20      16     323
Volume Left                          144      8       0       0
Volume Right                           8      0       0     323
cSH                                 1623    496     562    1085
Volume to Capacity                  0.09   0.04    0.03    0.30
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 7      3       2      31
Control Delay (s)                    7.1   12.6    11.6     9.7
Lane LOS                               A      B       B       A
Approach Delay (s)                   7.1   12.6     9.8
Approach LOS                                  B       A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        9.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 23.2%       ICU Level of Service      A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                   Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         3     514       16        39   1264       10          9        0     14       7       0         5
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                1.00     0.91               1.00   0.91                0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00               1.00     0.85           1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95     1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     5065              1770    5077               3433     3008           3433    3008
Flt Permitted                    0.12     1.00               0.27    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 221     5065                511   5077               3433     3008           3433    3008
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.75     0.71    0.80      0.75    0.87    0.63       0.56     1.00   0.58    0.88    1.00      0.42
Adj. Flow (vph)                      4     724       20        52   1453       16         16        0     24       8       0        12
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0       1       0          0       14      0       0       7         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                4     741        0        52   1468        0         16       10      0       8       5         0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                        Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)            34.7     33.7               40.7    36.7                2.6    43.9            1.3    39.7
Effective Green, g (s)           34.7     33.7               40.7    36.7                2.6    43.9            1.3    39.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.33    0.32               0.39    0.35               0.02    0.42           0.01    0.38
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     7.2                4.0     7.2                6.9     6.9            4.0     6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  88    1626                246   1775                  85   1258              43    1137
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.00     0.15              c0.01   c0.29              c0.00   c0.00           0.00    0.00
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.01                        0.07
v/c Ratio                        0.05     0.46               0.21    0.83               0.19    0.01           0.19    0.00
Uniform Delay, d1                25.3     28.4               20.7    31.2               50.2    17.8           51.3    20.3
Progression Factor               0.92     0.79               1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.2     0.9                0.4     4.6                1.1     0.0            2.1     0.0
Delay (s)                         23.4    23.2               21.1    35.8               51.2    17.8           53.4    20.3
Level of Service                     C       C                  C       D                  D       B              D       C
Approach Delay (s)                        23.2                       35.3                       31.2                   33.6
Approach LOS                                 C                          D                          C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           31.3        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.40
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    25.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 48.9%         ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                                            5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                          9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           34    191       56       190    446       59          69    401      83       79    705         79
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.97              1.00    0.98                1.00    0.97            1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3418              1770    3474                1770    3439            1770    3477
Flt Permitted                        0.42   1.00               0.44    1.00                0.20    1.00            0.40    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     777   3418                811   3474                  379   3439              745   3477
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.57    0.88    0.88      0.95    0.82    0.78        0.82    0.90   0.80     0.94    0.85      0.71
Adj. Flow (vph)                        60    217       64       200    544       76          84    446    104        84    829       111
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      28       0         0      11       0           0      21      0        0      10         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  60    253        0       200    609        0          84    529       0       84    930          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               17.8    17.8               31.5    31.5                48.5   43.0            48.5     43.0
Effective Green, g (s)              17.8    17.8               31.5    31.5                48.5   43.0            48.5     43.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.19    0.19               0.33    0.33                0.51   0.45             0.51    0.45
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0     5.5                 4.0    5.5              4.0     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                 3.0    3.0              3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   146     640                367   1152                  274   1557             440    1574
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.07               0.06   c0.18               c0.02   0.15             0.01   c0.27
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.08                      c0.13                        0.14                    0.09
v/c Ratio                           0.41    0.39               0.54    0.53                0.31   0.34             0.19    0.59
Uniform Delay, d1                   34.0    33.9               24.1    25.7                13.2   16.8             12.1    19.4
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00                0.91   1.06             1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                8.3     1.8                1.7     1.7                 0.6    0.6              0.2     1.6
Delay (s)                           42.3    35.7               25.8    27.5                12.6   18.4             12.3    21.1
Level of Service                       D       D                  C       C                   B      B                B       C
Approach Delay (s)                          36.9                       27.1                       17.6                     20.3
Approach LOS                                   D                          C                          B                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             23.7        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.55
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             95.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   67.1%         ICU Level of Service                      C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 5
AM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           56      54      53       43      33       9         53     497      27      17     873        48
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.94             1.00    0.96               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1746             1770    1789               1770    3539    1583    1770    3508
Flt Permitted                        0.71   1.00              0.57    1.00               0.26    1.00    1.00    0.45    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1318    1746             1069    1789                 485   3539    1583      830   3508
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.74    0.64    0.88     0.72    0.59    0.45       0.58    0.90    0.84    0.43    0.90      0.80
Adj. Flow (vph)                        76      84      60       60      56      20         91     552      32      40     970        60
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      30       0        0      15       0          0       0       8       0       3         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  76    114        0       60      61       0         91    552       24      40   1027          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               12.3     12.3            12.3    12.3               71.7    71.7    71.7    71.7     71.7
Effective Green, g (s)              12.3     12.3            12.3    12.3               71.7    71.7    71.7    71.7     71.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13     0.13            0.13    0.13               0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75     0.75
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   171      226             138     232                366    2671    1195     626    2648
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.07                    0.03                        0.16                   c0.29
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.06                     0.06                       0.19            0.02    0.05
v/c Ratio                           0.44     0.50            0.43    0.26               0.25    0.21    0.02    0.06     0.39
Uniform Delay, d1                   38.2     38.5            38.1    37.3                3.5     3.4     2.9     3.0      4.0
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               0.85    0.79    0.66    0.39     0.29
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8      1.8             2.2     0.6                1.6     0.2     0.0     0.2      0.4
Delay (s)                           40.0     40.3            40.3    37.9                4.6     2.8     1.9     1.3      1.5
Level of Service                       D        D               D       D                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                           40.2                    39.0                        3.0                      1.5
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              8.5       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.40
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             95.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   57.5%        ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                                            7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                         9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           10      23       8       142      49       5          6     542      97      12     914        18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00               1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.96              1.00    0.97               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1793              1770    1813               1770    3539    1583    1770    3525
Flt Permitted                        0.77   1.00               0.43    1.00               0.22    1.00    1.00    0.40    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1433    1793                810   1813                 411   3539    1583      754   3525
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.83    0.64    0.67      0.74    0.88    0.42       0.38    0.88    0.87    0.50    0.87      0.64
Adj. Flow (vph)                        12      36      12       192      56      12         16     616     111      24   1051         28
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      11       0         0       9       0          0       0      40       0       1         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  12      37       0      192       59       0         16    616       71      24   1078          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                5.2     5.2               23.1   23.1               60.9    60.9    60.9    60.9     60.9
Effective Green, g (s)               5.2     5.2               23.1   23.1               60.9    60.9    60.9    60.9     60.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.05    0.05               0.24   0.24               0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64     0.64
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                    78      98                337    441                263    2269    1015     483    2260
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.02              c0.08   0.03                       0.17                    c0.31
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                      c0.06                      0.04            0.04    0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.15    0.37               0.57   0.13               0.06    0.27    0.07    0.05     0.48
Uniform Delay, d1                   42.8    43.3               30.6   28.1                6.4     7.4     6.4     6.3      8.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00   1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00    0.59     0.52
Incremental Delay, d2                0.9     2.4                2.2    0.1                0.4     0.3     0.1     0.2      0.7
Delay (s)                           43.7    45.7               32.8   28.3                6.8     7.7     6.5     3.9      5.2
Level of Service                       D       D                  C      C                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          45.3                      31.6                        7.5                      5.2
Approach LOS                                   D                         C                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.3        HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             95.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   49.5%         ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                              8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         3    16       26     609   1161       12
Sign Control                        Stop                   Free   Free
Grade                                0%                     0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.75   0.57    0.81    0.91   0.84     0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 4     28      32     669   1382       16
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                None   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                              1227
pX, platoon unblocked               0.88   0.88    0.88
vC, conflicting volume              1789   699     1398
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1616   371     1169
tC, single (s)                       6.8    6.9     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    3.3      2.2
p0 queue free %                      95     95       94
cM capacity (veh/h)                  78    548      519
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2
Volume Total                           4     28      32     335    335      921       477
Volume Left                            4      0      32       0      0        0         0
Volume Right                           0     28       0       0      0        0        16
cSH                                   78    548     519    1700   1700     1700      1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.05   0.05    0.06    0.20   0.20     0.54      0.28
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 4      4       5       0      0        0         0
Control Delay (s)                   54.0   11.9    12.4     0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0
Lane LOS                               F      B       B
Approach Delay (s)                  17.2            0.6                     0.0
Approach LOS                           C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        0.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 42.5%       ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                           Page 8
AM Peak Period                                                                                    9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                           9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         115     286       82     261     883       69         120     296       84       74    621         255
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9         4.0      6.3     6.3      4.0     6.3        6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.95     1.00    0.97    0.95     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95        1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00        1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539       1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.18    1.00     1.00    0.49    1.00        1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583          334    3539    1583      912    3539       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.77    0.95    0.89     0.78    0.81    0.57        0.86     0.82    0.68     0.73    0.82       0.71
Adj. Flow (vph)                      149     301       92     335    1090     121          140     361     124      101     757        359
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      62        0       0      75            0       0      89        0       0        144
Lane Group Flow (vph)                149     301       30     335    1090       46         140     361       35     101     757        215
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt               Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8            2              2         6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)             7.1       34.2     34.2    14.9     40.1    40.1        35.7    29.7    29.7     35.7     29.7      29.7
Effective Green, g (s)            7.1       34.2     34.2    14.9     40.1    40.1        35.7    29.7    29.7     35.7     29.7      29.7
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.07       0.33     0.33    0.14     0.38    0.38        0.34    0.28    0.28      0.34    0.28      0.28
Clearance Time (s)                5.9        5.9      5.9     4.0      5.9     5.9          4.0    6.3     6.3       4.0     6.3       6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               232        1153     516     487     1352     605         196     1001    448       359    1001       448
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.04       0.09             0.10    c0.31               c0.04    0.10             0.02    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.02                     0.03        0.20            0.02      0.08              0.14
v/c Ratio                           0.64    0.26     0.06    0.69     0.81    0.08        0.71    0.36    0.08     0.28     0.76      0.48
Uniform Delay, d1                   47.7    26.1     24.3    42.8     29.0    20.7        26.2    30.1    27.6     24.3     34.3      31.2
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    0.46     0.97    2.31        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                6.0     0.6      0.2     3.1      4.0     0.2        11.7     1.0     0.3       0.4     5.3       3.6
Delay (s)                           53.7    26.6     24.5    22.8     32.0    47.9        37.9    31.1    28.0      24.7    39.7      34.9
Level of Service                       D       C        C       C        C       D           D       C       C         C       D         C
Approach Delay (s)                          33.7                      31.2                        32.0                      37.0
Approach LOS                                   C                         C                           C                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             33.5       HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.77
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                     22.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   71.6%        ICU Level of Service                       C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 9
AM Peak Period                                                                                 10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                   9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        7       2       6      27       1       22        13     222    14      28     440        18
Sign Control                               Stop                    Stop                       Free                  Free
Grade                                       0%                      0%                         0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.44   0.50    0.75     0.75   0.25     0.69      0.81    0.71   0.50   0.78    0.85      0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                16      4       8       36      4       32        16     313     28     36     518        24
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                                   None                  None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              824    974      271     699     972      170       542                   341
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  824    974      271     699     972      170       542                   341
tC, single (s)                       7.5    6.5      6.9     7.5     6.5      6.9       4.1                   4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    4.0      3.3     3.5     4.0      3.3       2.2                   2.2
p0 queue free %                      93     98       99      88      98       96        98                    97
cM capacity (veh/h)                 243    239      727     308     240      844      1023                  1215
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     NB 2      SB 1    SB 2
Volume Total                          20      8      40       32    172      184       295     283
Volume Left                           16      0      36        0     16        0        36       0
Volume Right                           0      8       0       32      0       28         0      24
cSH                                  243    727     299      844   1023     1700      1215    1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.08   0.01    0.13     0.04   0.02     0.11      0.03    0.17
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 7      1      11        3      1        0         2       0
Control Delay (s)                   21.2   10.0    18.9      9.4    0.9      0.0       1.2     0.0
Lane LOS                               C      B       C        A      A                  A
Approach Delay (s)                  18.0           14.7             0.5                0.6
Approach LOS                           C              B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        2.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 38.7%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 10
AM Peak Period                                                                       11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       164     8        4      10      14     231
Sign Control                        Free                   Stop   Yield
Grade                                0%                     0%      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.93   0.67    0.50    0.50   0.70     0.76
Hourly flow rate (vph)               176     12       8      20      20    304
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0            363    353     365        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0            363    353     365        0
tC, single (s)                       4.1             7.1    6.5     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2             3.5    4.0     4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                       89             98     96      96       72
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623            380    510     502     1085
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                         176     12      28      20    304
Volume Left                          176      0       8       0      0
Volume Right                           0     12       0       0    304
cSH                                 1623   1700     465     502   1085
Volume to Capacity                  0.11   0.01    0.06    0.04   0.28
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 9      0       5       3     29
Control Delay (s)                    7.5    0.0    13.2    12.5    9.6
Lane LOS                               A              B       B      A
Approach Delay (s)                   7.0           13.2     9.8
Approach LOS                                          B       A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 24.3%       ICU Level of Service          A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                     Page 11
AM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           12    123       44     132     119       16         41    136       80      18    262         21
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.96             1.00    0.98               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1790             1770    1819               1770    1863    1583    1770    1833
Flt Permitted                        0.65   1.00              0.63    1.00               0.56    1.00    1.00    0.66    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1203    1790             1178    1819               1039    1863    1583    1221    1833
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.75    0.83    0.85     0.85    0.80    0.57       0.85    0.85    0.87    0.64    0.87      0.58
Adj. Flow (vph)                        16    148       52     155     149       28         48    160       92      28     301        36
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      31       0        0      16       0          0       0      43       0       7         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  16    169        0     155     161        0         48    160       49      28    330          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                         2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                9.6     9.6               9.6    9.6               23.8    23.8    23.8    23.8     23.8
Effective Green, g (s)               9.6     9.6               9.6    9.6               23.8    23.8    23.8    23.8     23.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.22    0.22              0.22   0.22               0.54    0.54    0.54    0.54     0.54
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5    5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  260     387               255    393                557     999     849     655      983
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.09                     0.09                       0.09                    c0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     c0.13                      0.05            0.03    0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.06    0.44              0.61   0.41               0.09    0.16    0.06    0.04     0.34
Uniform Delay, d1                   13.8    15.1              15.7   15.0                5.0     5.2     4.9     4.9      5.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00   1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     0.8               4.1    0.7                0.3     0.3     0.1     0.1      0.9
Delay (s)                           13.9    15.8              19.8   15.7                5.3     5.6     5.1     5.0      6.8
Level of Service                       B       B                 B      B                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          15.7                     17.6                        5.4                      6.6
Approach LOS                                   B                        B                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.9       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.41
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             44.4       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   62.4%        ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
AM Peak Period                                                                                  13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                         9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                            4      47       5       94      51      31          5     592      55      114   1791         23
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.97             1.00    0.94               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1810             1770    1751               1770    3539    1583     1770    3529
Flt Permitted                        0.69   1.00              0.72    1.00               0.09    1.00    1.00     0.36    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1290    1810             1332    1751                 166   3539    1583       679   3529
Peak-hour factor, PHF                1.00    0.90    0.42     0.78    0.85    0.78       0.63    0.91    0.76     0.81    0.96      0.64
Adj. Flow (vph)                         4      52      12     121       60      40          8     651      72      141   1866         36
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       9       0        0      27       0          0       0      26        0       1         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   4      55       0     121       73       0          8    651       46     141    1901          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                         2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               14.8    14.8              14.8   14.8               66.9    66.9    66.9     78.7     78.7
Effective Green, g (s)              14.8    14.8              14.8   14.8               66.9    66.9    66.9     78.7     78.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.14    0.14              0.14   0.14               0.64    0.64    0.64      0.75    0.75
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5    5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   182     255               188    247                106    2255    1009      590    2645
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.03                     0.04                        0.18             0.02   c0.54
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.00                     c0.09                      0.05            0.03      0.16
v/c Ratio                           0.02    0.21              0.64   0.30               0.08    0.29    0.05      0.24    0.72
Uniform Delay, d1                   38.9    39.9              42.6   40.4                7.3     8.5     7.1       3.9     7.1
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00   1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.0     0.4               7.3    0.7                1.4     0.3     0.1       0.2     1.7
Delay (s)                           38.9    40.4              49.9   41.1                8.6     8.8     7.2       4.1     8.9
Level of Service                       D       D                 D      D                  A       A       A         A       A
Approach Delay (s)                          40.3                     46.0                        8.6                       8.5
Approach LOS                                   D                        D                          A                         A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             12.0       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.71
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   85.0%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 13
PM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                         9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       241     410       26        27    320       81        32     131         10     49       63       121
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5             5.5        5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00      1.00            1.00       1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    0.97                       1.00      0.85            1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.99      1.00            0.98       1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3509              1770    3426                       1844      1583            1829       1583
Flt Permitted                     0.38    1.00               0.44    1.00                       0.92      1.00            0.83       1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  704    3509               825    3426                       1711      1583            1540       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.81     0.78    0.81      0.48    0.87    0.81       0.73    0.74      0.50    0.94    0.72       0.76
Adj. Flow (vph)                    298     526       32        56    368     100          44    177         20      52      88       159
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        5       0         0      30       0          0       0        13       0       0        103
Lane Group Flow (vph)             298      553        0        56    438        0          0    221          7       0    140          56
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm               Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                  6
Actuated Green, G (s)             41.5    33.9              30.3    26.7                        28.5     28.5            28.5       28.5
Effective Green, g (s)            41.5    33.9              30.3    26.7                        28.5     28.5            28.5       28.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.51    0.42               0.37   0.33                        0.35     0.35            0.35       0.35
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0    6.0                         5.5      5.5             5.5        5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                         3.0      3.0             3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 500    1460               348    1122                         598      554             539        554
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.08    0.16              0.01    0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.22                       0.05                              c0.13     0.00            0.09       0.04
v/c Ratio                         0.60    0.38               0.16   0.39                        0.37     0.01            0.26       0.10
Uniform Delay, d1                 12.2    16.5               16.6   21.1                        19.8     17.3            19.0       17.9
Progression Factor                1.00    1.00              1.00    1.00                        1.00     1.00            1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.9     0.2                0.2    0.2                         1.8      0.0             1.2        0.4
Delay (s)                         14.1    16.7               16.8   21.3                        21.5     17.4            20.1       18.2
Level of Service                     B       B                  B      C                           C        B               C          B
Approach Delay (s)                        15.8                      20.9                        21.2                     19.1
Approach LOS                                 B                         C                           C                        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           18.4        HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.48
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           81.5        Sum of lost time (s)                       9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 66.4%         ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                      2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                    9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       57     577      17      70     463       19       20      16    136     20        9         28
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.77   0.90    0.64     0.85   0.92     0.50      0.75   0.64    0.81   0.64    0.75       0.83
Hourly flow rate (vph)                74    641      27       82    503       38        27     25    168      31      12         34
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              541                     668                       1259   1508    334    1336   1503         271
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  541                     668                       1259   1508    334    1336   1503         271
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.5    6.5     6.9    7.5    6.5          6.9
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                     2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0        3.3
p0 queue free %                       93                     91                        73     75      75     48       88         95
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1023                    918                        98    101     662     60      102        727
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    EB 3    WB 1    WB 2    WB 3       NB 1   NB 2    SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                          74    427     240       82     336     206        52    168      43     34
Volume Left                           74      0       0       82       0        0       27      0      31      0
Volume Right                           0      0      27        0       0      38         0    168       0     34
cSH                                 1023   1700    1700      918   1700    1700         99    662      67    727
Volume to Capacity                  0.07   0.25    0.14     0.09    0.20    0.12      0.52   0.25    0.64   0.05
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 6      0       0        7       0        0       59     25      70      4
Control Delay (s)                    8.8    0.0     0.0      9.3     0.0      0.0     75.4   12.3   125.8   10.2
Lane LOS                               A                       A                         F      B       F      B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.9                     1.2                      27.1           75.1
Approach LOS                                                                             D              F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        7.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 39.0%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                       3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       316     1        3       6       1     163
Sign Control                        Free                   Stop   Yield
Grade                                0%                     0%      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.89   0.25    0.38    0.50   0.25     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)               355      4       8      12       4    192
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0            714    712     714        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0            714    712     714        0
tC, single (s)                       4.1             7.1    6.5     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2             3.5    4.0     4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                       78             97     96      99       82
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623            235    279     279     1085
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NB 1    SB 1    SB 2
Volume Total                         359     20       4     192
Volume Left                          355      8       0       0
Volume Right                           4      0       0     192
cSH                                 1623    260     279    1085
Volume to Capacity                  0.22   0.08    0.01    0.18
Queue Length 95th (ft)                21      6       1      16
Control Delay (s)                    7.8   20.0    18.1     9.0
Lane LOS                               A      C       C       A
Approach Delay (s)                   7.8   20.0     9.2
Approach LOS                                  C       A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        8.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 27.6%       ICU Level of Service      A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                   Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         8    1481       26        99    637       12         27        3     54      54       4         2
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                1.00     0.91               1.00   0.91                0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00               1.00     0.86           1.00    0.95
Flt Protected                    0.95     1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     5068              1770    5060               3433     3057           3433    3362
Flt Permitted                    0.36     1.00               0.09    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 664     5068                160   5060               3433     3057           3433    3362
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.50     0.87    0.65      0.88    0.91    0.50       0.68     0.38   0.68    0.84    0.50      0.50
Adj. Flow (vph)                     16    1702       40       112    700       24         40        8     79      64       8         4
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        2       0         0       3       0          0       53      0       0       3         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               16    1740        0      112     721        0         40       34      0      64       9         0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                        Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)            45.4      43.0              52.6   46.6                4.2     37.5             6.4   36.8
Effective Green, g (s)           45.4      43.0              52.6   46.6                4.2     37.5             6.4   36.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.39     0.37              0.46   0.41               0.04     0.33            0.06   0.32
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      7.2               4.0    7.2                6.9      6.9             4.0    6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0             3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                285     1895                157   2050               125      997             191    1076
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.00     c0.34             c0.04   0.14               0.01    c0.01           c0.02   0.00
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.02                        0.29
v/c Ratio                        0.06      0.92              0.71   0.35               0.32     0.03            0.34   0.01
Uniform Delay, d1                21.3      34.3              24.8   23.7               54.0     26.4            52.3   26.7
Progression Factor               1.42      1.31              1.00   1.00               1.00     1.00            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1      7.6              14.2    0.5                1.5      0.1             1.0    0.0
Delay (s)                         30.3     52.5              39.0   24.2               55.5     26.5            53.3   26.7
Level of Service                     C        D                 D      C                  E        C               D      C
Approach Delay (s)                         52.3                     26.2                        35.6                   49.1
Approach LOS                                  D                        C                           D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           43.6        HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          115.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    19.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 58.0%         ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                                            5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                          9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           81    332       50       175    374      102          75   1048     119     112     685         68
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00    0.97                1.00    0.98            1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3460              1770    3424                1770    3481            1770    3489
Flt Permitted                        0.43   1.00               0.31    1.00                0.24    1.00            0.09    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     800   3460                575   3424                  442   3481              166   3489
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.84    0.86    0.74      0.95    0.81    0.80        0.89    0.87   0.80     0.93    0.90      0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        96    386       68       184    462     128           84   1205    149       120    761         80
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      14       0         0      24       0           0       9      0        0       7         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  96    440        0       184    566        0          84   1345       0      120    834          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               25.0    25.0               39.5   39.5                49.2     43.6            51.8   44.9
Effective Green, g (s)              25.0    25.0               39.5   39.5                49.2     43.6            51.8   44.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24    0.24               0.38   0.38                 0.47    0.42            0.49   0.43
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5             4.0    5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0             3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   190     824                336   1288                 278    1445              187   1492
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.13              c0.05   0.17                 0.02   c0.39           c0.04   0.24
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.12                      c0.15                        0.13                    0.27
v/c Ratio                           0.51    0.53               0.55   0.44                 0.30    0.93            0.64   0.56
Uniform Delay, d1                   34.6    34.9               23.5   24.5                 16.5    29.3            21.7   22.6
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00   1.00                1.21     0.91            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                9.3     2.5                1.8    1.1                  0.5    10.7             7.3    1.5
Delay (s)                           43.9    37.4               25.3   25.6                 20.4    37.2            29.0   24.1
Level of Service                       D       D                  C      C                    C       D               C      C
Approach Delay (s)                          38.5                      25.5                         36.3                   24.7
Approach LOS                                   D                         C                            D                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             31.4        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.72
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    13.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   79.6%         ICU Level of Service                      D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 5
PM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           96    165       84       39      54      14         64   1165       42      11     843        68
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.95             1.00    0.96               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1777             1770    1787               1770    3539    1583    1770    3491
Flt Permitted                        0.70   1.00              0.28    1.00               0.25    1.00    1.00    0.16    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1304    1777               529   1787                 463   3539    1583      290   3491
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.86    0.79    0.91     0.70    0.84    0.58       0.73    0.86    0.81    0.55    0.91      0.74
Adj. Flow (vph)                      112     209       92       56      64      24         88   1355       52      20     926        92
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      17       0        0      14       0          0       0      16       0       6         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                112     284        0       56      74       0         88   1355       36      20   1012          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               22.0     22.0            22.0    22.0               72.0     72.0   72.0    72.0    72.0
Effective Green, g (s)              22.0     22.0            22.0    22.0               72.0     72.0   72.0    72.0    72.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.21     0.21            0.21    0.21               0.69     0.69   0.69    0.69    0.69
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   273      372             111     374                317    2427    1085     199    2394
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.16                    0.04                       c0.38                    0.29
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.09                     0.11                       0.19            0.02    0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.41     0.76            0.50    0.20               0.28     0.56   0.03    0.10    0.42
Uniform Delay, d1                   35.9     39.1            36.7    34.2                6.4      8.4    5.3     5.6     7.3
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               0.52     0.46   0.25    0.68    0.65
Incremental Delay, d2                1.0      9.0             3.6     0.3                1.7      0.8    0.0     0.9     0.5
Delay (s)                           36.9     48.1            40.3    34.5                5.1      4.6    1.4     4.6     5.2
Level of Service                       D        D               D       C                  A        A      A       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                           45.1                    36.7                         4.5                    5.2
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                           A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             11.7       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   81.0%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                                            7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                         9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           17      90      10       126      40      10         12   1238     196        5     958        10
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00               1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00    0.96               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1830              1770    1793               1770    3539    1583    1770    3533
Flt Permitted                        0.72   1.00               0.40    1.00               0.23    1.00    1.00    0.13    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1332    1830                746   1793                 436   3539    1583      240   3533
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.61    0.75    0.63      0.79    0.83    0.63       0.60    0.87    0.78    0.42    0.94      0.83
Adj. Flow (vph)                        28    120       16       159      48      16         20   1423     251       12   1019         12
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       4       0         0      12       0          0       0      89       0       1         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  28    132        0       159      52       0         20   1423     162       12   1030          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               11.3     11.3              26.4   26.4               67.6     67.6   67.6    67.6    67.6
Effective Green, g (s)              11.3     11.3              26.4   26.4               67.6     67.6   67.6    67.6    67.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.11     0.11              0.25   0.25               0.64     0.64   0.64    0.64    0.64
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5               4.0    5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   143      197               296    451                281    2278    1019     155    2275
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.07             c0.06   0.03                       c0.40                    0.29
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02                       0.08                      0.05            0.10    0.05
v/c Ratio                           0.20     0.67              0.54   0.12               0.07     0.62   0.16    0.08    0.45
Uniform Delay, d1                   42.7     45.0              32.5   30.3                7.0     11.1    7.4     7.0     9.4
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00    1.87    1.72
Incremental Delay, d2                0.7      8.3               1.9    0.1                0.5      1.3    0.3     0.9     0.6
Delay (s)                           43.4     53.3              34.4   30.4                7.5     12.4    7.8    14.0    16.8
Level of Service                       D        D                 C      C                  A        B      A       B       B
Approach Delay (s)                           51.6                     33.3                        11.7                   16.7
Approach LOS                                    D                        C                           B                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             17.0        HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.62
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                   15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   57.0%         ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                              8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         7    28       21    1302   1081       12
Sign Control                        Stop                   Free   Free
Grade                                0%                     0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.44   0.64    0.66    0.92   0.97     0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                16     44      32    1415   1114       16
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                None   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                              1227
pX, platoon unblocked               0.90   0.90    0.90
vC, conflicting volume              1894   565     1130
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1765   283      914
tC, single (s)                       6.8    6.9      4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    3.3      2.2
p0 queue free %                      75     93       95
cM capacity (veh/h)                  64    640      665
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2
Volume Total                          16     44      32     708    708      743       387
Volume Left                           16      0      32       0      0        0         0
Volume Right                           0     44       0       0      0        0        16
cSH                                   64    640     665    1700   1700     1700      1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.25   0.07    0.05    0.42   0.42     0.44      0.23
Queue Length 95th (ft)                22      5       4       0      0        0         0
Control Delay (s)                   78.9   11.0    10.7     0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0
Lane LOS                               F      B       B
Approach Delay (s)                  29.1            0.2                     0.0
Approach LOS                           D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        0.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 46.0%       ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                           Page 8
PM Peak Period                                                                                   9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                           9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR       SBL     SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         234     822       82     128     311     102         252     628     172       206     497        185
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900        1900    1900    1900     1900     1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9         4.0     6.3     6.3       4.0     6.3        6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.95     1.00    0.97    0.95     1.00       1.00    0.95     1.00     1.00    0.95        1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00     1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00       0.95    1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00        1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583        1770    3539    1583     1770     3539       1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00       0.32    1.00     1.00     0.20    1.00        1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583         596    3539    1583       365    3539       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.90    0.94    0.71     0.80    0.75    0.85        0.80    0.87    0.72     0.73     0.91       0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                      260     874     115      160     415     120         315     722     239       282     546        208
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      70        0       0      97           0       0     125         0       0        149
Lane Group Flow (vph)                260     874       45     160     415       23        315     722     114       282     546          59
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm       pm+pt            Perm    pm+pt                Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                    5      2                  1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8           2              2          6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)               27.1     45.1    45.1      6.0   22.1     22.1       43.7    32.7    32.7      43.7    32.7       32.7
Effective Green, g (s)              27.1     45.1    45.1      6.0   22.1     22.1       43.7    32.7    32.7      43.7    32.7       32.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24     0.39    0.39     0.05   0.19     0.19        0.38   0.28    0.28      0.38    0.28       0.28
Clearance Time (s)                   5.9      5.9     5.9      4.0    5.9      5.9         4.0    6.3     6.3        4.0    6.3        6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0         3.0    3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   809    1388      621     179    680      304         339    1006    450       273     1006       450
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.08    c0.25            c0.05   0.12                0.09    0.20             c0.10    0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.03                     0.01        0.26           0.07     c0.29               0.04
v/c Ratio                           0.32     0.63    0.07     0.89   0.61     0.08       0.93    0.72    0.25      1.03    0.54       0.13
Uniform Delay, d1                   36.3     28.2    21.9     54.2   42.5     38.1       30.9    37.0    31.7      30.6    34.8       30.6
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.44   1.57     4.67       1.00    1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.2      2.2     0.2     37.7    3.9      0.5       30.9     4.4     1.3      63.3     2.1        0.6
Delay (s)                           36.6     30.4    22.1    115.5   70.5    178.1       61.7    41.4    33.1      93.9    36.9       31.2
Level of Service                       D        C       C        F      E        F           E      D       C          F      D          C
Approach Delay (s)                           30.9                    99.5                        44.9                      51.3
Approach LOS                                    C                       F                           D                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             51.2       HCM Level of Service                       D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.81
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            115.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    17.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   73.3%        ICU Level of Service                      D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 9
PM Peak Period                                                                                10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                  9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        8       0       9      12       0       37        3     604    22     37      518         3
Sign Control                               Stop                    Stop                      Free                  Free
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.33   1.00    0.38     0.60   1.00     0.66      0.75   0.92   0.92   0.77    0.88      0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                24      0      24       20      0       56         4    657     24     48     589         4
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                                  None                 None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1079   1375     296    1091    1365      340      593                  680
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1079   1375     296    1091    1365      340      593                  680
tC, single (s)                       7.5    6.5      6.9    7.5     6.5       6.9      4.1                  4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    4.0      3.3     3.5     4.0      3.3      2.2                  2.2
p0 queue free %                      84    100       97      87     100       91      100                   95
cM capacity (veh/h)                 151    136      700     157     138      656      979                  908
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     NB 2      SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                          24     24      20       56    332      352       342    298
Volume Left                           24      0      20        0      4        0        48      0
Volume Right                           0     24       0       56      0       24         0      4
cSH                                  151    700     157      656    979     1700       908   1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.16   0.03    0.13     0.09   0.00     0.21      0.05   0.18
Queue Length 95th (ft)                14      3      11        7      0        0         4      0
Control Delay (s)                   33.3   10.3    31.3     11.0    0.1      0.0       1.8    0.0
Lane LOS                               D      B       D        B      A                  A
Approach Delay (s)                  22.0           16.3             0.1                1.0
Approach LOS                           C              C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        2.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 50.3%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 10
PM Peak Period                                                                       11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       378     6        0      11       3     213
Sign Control                        Free                   Stop   Yield
Grade                                0%                     0%      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.38    1.00    0.55   0.38     0.89
Hourly flow rate (vph)               398     16       0      20       8    239
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0            800    796     812        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0            800    796     812        0
tC, single (s)                       4.1             7.1    6.5     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2             3.5    4.0     4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                       75            100     92      97       78
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623            187    241     236     1085
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                         398     16      20       8    239
Volume Left                          398      0       0       0      0
Volume Right                           0     16       0       0    239
cSH                                 1623   1700     241     236   1085
Volume to Capacity                  0.25   0.01    0.08    0.03   0.22
Queue Length 95th (ft)                24      0       7       3     21
Control Delay (s)                    7.9    0.0    21.2    20.8    9.3
Lane LOS                               A              C       C      A
Approach Delay (s)                   7.6           21.2     9.6
Approach LOS                                          C       A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        8.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 30.9%       ICU Level of Service          A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                     Page 11
PM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           38    172       23     100     129       16         52    374     182        8    156         17
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.97             1.00    0.98               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1814             1770    1830               1770    1863    1583    1770    1827
Flt Permitted                        0.65   1.00              0.60    1.00               0.62    1.00    1.00    0.48    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1208    1814             1124    1830               1161    1863    1583      898   1827
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.86    0.83    0.52     0.83    0.85    0.80       0.72    0.87    0.83    0.67    0.83      0.61
Adj. Flow (vph)                        44    207       44     120     152       20         72    430     219       12    188         28
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      18       0        0      11       0          0       0     108       0       9         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  44    233        0     120     161        0         72    430     111       12    207          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               10.7     10.7            10.7    10.7               22.3     22.3   22.3    22.3    22.3
Effective Green, g (s)              10.7     10.7            10.7    10.7               22.3     22.3   22.3    22.3    22.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24     0.24            0.24    0.24               0.51     0.51   0.51    0.51    0.51
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   294      441             273     445                588      944    802     455     926
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.13                    0.09                       c0.23                   0.11
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.04                     0.11                       0.06            0.07    0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.15     0.53            0.44    0.36               0.12     0.46   0.14    0.03    0.22
Uniform Delay, d1                   13.1     14.5            14.1    13.8                5.7      7.0    5.8     5.4     6.0
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.2      1.1             1.1     0.5                0.4      1.6    0.4     0.1     0.6
Delay (s)                           13.3     15.6            15.2    14.3                6.1      8.5    6.1     5.5     6.6
Level of Service                       B        B               B       B                  A        A      A       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                           15.3                    14.7                         7.6                    6.5
Approach LOS                                    B                       B                           A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.2       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.48
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             44.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   66.8%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
PM Peak Period                                                                                   13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                         9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           11      96      26       62      51      68         15   1653       77       47   1453         14
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.97             1.00    0.92               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1808             1770    1716               1770    3539    1583     1770    3534
Flt Permitted                        0.47   1.00              0.46    1.00               0.15    1.00    1.00     0.08    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     878   1808               853   1716                 278   3539    1583       143   3534
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.73    0.81     0.82    0.67    0.81       0.75    0.95    0.84     0.62    0.94      0.88
Adj. Flow (vph)                        12    132       32       76      76      84         20   1740       92       76   1546         16
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       9       0        0      39       0          0       0      26        0       0         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  12    155        0       76    121        0         20   1740       66       76   1562          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                         2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               15.1    15.1              15.1   15.1               78.5     78.5   78.5     88.4     88.4
Effective Green, g (s)              15.1    15.1              15.1   15.1               78.5     78.5   78.5     88.4     88.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13    0.13              0.13   0.13               0.68     0.68   0.68      0.77    0.77
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5    5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   115     237               112    225                190    2416    1081      193    2717
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.09                     0.07                       c0.49             0.02   c0.44
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     c0.09                      0.07            0.04      0.28
v/c Ratio                           0.10    0.66              0.68   0.54               0.11     0.72   0.06      0.39    0.57
Uniform Delay, d1                   44.0    47.5              47.6   46.7                6.2     11.4    6.0      11.2     5.5
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00   1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.4     6.4              15.1    2.5                1.1      1.9    0.1       1.3     0.9
Delay (s)                           44.4    53.9              62.7   49.1                7.4     13.3    6.2      12.5     6.4
Level of Service                       D       D                 E      D                  A        B      A         B       A
Approach Delay (s)                          53.2                     53.5                        12.9                      6.7
Approach LOS                                   D                        D                           B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             14.6       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.73
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            115.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   17.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   72.5%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 13
AM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        65     214       26        39    527       32        20       25        0      75       88        215
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5                       5.5        5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00                      1.00       1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    0.99                       1.00                      1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.98                      0.98       1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3486              1770    3501                       1817                      1826       1583
Flt Permitted                     0.30    1.00               0.56    1.00                       0.80                      0.85       1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  557    3486              1038    3501                       1489                      1575       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.71     0.74    0.81      0.75    0.79    0.62       0.63    0.78      1.00    0.75    0.59       0.80
Adj. Flow (vph)                     92     289       32        52    667       52         32      32         0     100     149        269
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0       11       0         0       8       0          0       0         0       0       0        156
Lane Group Flow (vph)               92     310        0        52    711        0          0      64         0       0     249        113
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm               Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                  6
Actuated Green, G (s)             36.0    32.0              34.0     31.0                      24.5                       24.5      24.5
Effective Green, g (s)            36.0    32.0              34.0     31.0                      24.5                       24.5      24.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.48    0.43               0.45    0.41                      0.33                       0.33      0.33
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0     6.0                       5.5                        5.5       5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                       3.0                        3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 332    1487               500    1447                        486                        515       517
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.01    0.09              0.00    c0.20
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.12                       0.04                              0.04                      c0.16      0.07
v/c Ratio                         0.28    0.21               0.10    0.49                      0.13                       0.48      0.22
Uniform Delay, d1                 11.0    13.5               11.5    16.2                      17.8                       20.2      18.3
Progression Factor                0.38    0.31              1.00     1.00                      1.00                       1.00      1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.5     0.3                0.1     1.2                       0.6                        3.2       1.0
Delay (s)                          4.6     4.6               11.6    17.4                      18.3                       23.4      19.3
Level of Service                     A       A                  B       B                         B                          C         B
Approach Delay (s)                         4.6                       17.0                      18.3                       21.3
Approach LOS                                 A                          B                         B                          C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           15.4        HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           75.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     15.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 54.1%         ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                           2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           17    276       26       309    511       12         61       7      38     11        9         42
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0     5.0             5.0        5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00       1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.97              1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00    0.85            1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00            0.99       1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3448              1770    3525               1770    1863    1583            1838       1583
Flt Permitted                        0.43   1.00               0.53    1.00               0.73    1.00    1.00            0.93       1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     804   3448                979   3525               1357    1863    1583            1733       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.71    0.91    0.41      0.89    0.90    0.75       0.50    0.58    0.73    0.92    0.28       0.75
Adj. Flow (vph)                        24    303       63       347    568       16       122       12      52      12      32         56
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      20       0         0       2       0          0       0      44       0       0         47
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  24    346        0       347    582        0       122       12       8       0      44          9
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm               Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                          2               2      6                  6
Actuated Green, G (s)               29.0    29.0               53.0   53.0                12.0   12.0     12.0           12.0       12.0
Effective Green, g (s)              29.0    29.0               53.0   53.0                12.0   12.0     12.0           12.0       12.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.39    0.39               0.71   0.71                0.16   0.16     0.16           0.16       0.16
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0               5.0    5.0                 5.0    5.0      5.0            5.0        5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                 3.0    3.0      3.0            3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   311    1333                892   2491                 217    298      253            277       253
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.10             c0.10   0.17                       0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.03                      c0.18                      c0.09            0.01           0.03       0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.08    0.26               0.39   0.23                0.56   0.04     0.03           0.16       0.04
Uniform Delay, d1                   14.5    15.7                5.2    3.9                29.1   26.6     26.6           27.2       26.6
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.41   0.27                1.00   1.00     1.00           1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5     0.5                0.3    0.2                 3.3    0.1      0.1            0.3        0.1
Delay (s)                           15.0    16.2                2.4    1.3                32.4   26.7     26.7           27.4       26.7
Level of Service                       B       B                  A      A                   C      C        C              C          C
Approach Delay (s)                          16.1                       1.7                       30.4                    27.0
Approach LOS                                   B                         A                          C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.1        HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.41
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             75.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   48.1%         ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                         3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                               5/15/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         102       3       2       27    225       87
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                                  0.99           1.00     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95            0.95     1.00    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1766           1770     1863    1863    1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95            0.38     1.00    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1766             714    1863    1863    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.71   0.38    0.25     0.33    0.38    0.66
Adj. Flow (vph)                      144       8       8       82    592     132
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    4      0       0        0       0      52
Lane Group Flow (vph)                148       0       8       82    592       80
Turn Type                                          Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                       4                       2       6
Permitted Phases                                       2                        6
Actuated Green, G (s)             7.5               27.3    27.3     27.3    27.3
Effective Green, g (s)            7.5               27.3    27.3     27.3    27.3
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.17               0.61    0.61     0.61    0.61
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               296                435     1135    1135     965
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.08                       0.04    c0.32
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.01                     0.05
v/c Ratio                           0.50            0.02    0.07     0.52    0.08
Uniform Delay, d1                   16.9             3.5     3.6      5.0     3.6
Progression Factor                  1.00            1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.3             0.0     0.0      0.4     0.0
Delay (s)                           18.3             3.5     3.6      5.4     3.6
Level of Service                       B               A       A        A       A
Approach Delay (s)                  18.3                     3.6      5.1
Approach LOS                           B                       A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             7.0       HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.52
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            44.8       Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  26.0%        ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                     Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                     9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         3     514       16        39   1241       33          9        0     14       7       0       224
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                0.97     0.91               1.00   0.91                0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    0.99               1.00     0.85           1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95     1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     5065              1770    5058               3433     3008           3433    3008
Flt Permitted                    0.12     1.00               0.27    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 429     5065                511   5058               3433     3008           3433    3008
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.75     0.71    0.80      0.75    0.87    0.63       0.56     1.00   0.58    0.88    1.00      0.42
Adj. Flow (vph)                      4     724       20        52   1426       52         16        0     24       8       0       533
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0       4       0          0       14      0       0     144         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                4     741        0        52   1474        0         16       10      0       8     389         0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                        Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)            34.7     33.7               40.7    36.7                2.6    43.9            1.3     39.7
Effective Green, g (s)           34.7     33.7               40.7    36.7                2.6    43.9            1.3     39.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.33    0.32               0.39    0.35               0.02    0.42           0.01     0.38
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     7.2                4.0     7.2                6.9     6.9            4.0      6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                170     1626                246   1768                  85   1258              43    1137
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.00     0.15              c0.01   c0.29              c0.00   c0.00           0.00    c0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.01                        0.07
v/c Ratio                        0.02     0.46               0.21    0.83               0.19    0.01           0.19     0.34
Uniform Delay, d1                25.3     28.4               20.7    31.3               50.2    17.8           51.3     23.3
Progression Factor               0.92     0.78               1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1     0.9                0.4     4.8                1.1     0.0            2.1      0.8
Delay (s)                         23.3    23.0               21.1    36.1               51.2    17.8           53.4     24.1
Level of Service                     C       C                  C       D                  D       B              D        C
Approach Delay (s)                        23.0                       35.6                       31.2                    24.6
Approach LOS                                 C                          D                          C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           30.2        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.62
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    31.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 50.4%         ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                                            5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           34    191       56      149     360       59          69    401      83       79    705         79
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95              1.00    0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.97              1.00    0.98                1.00    0.97            1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3418              1770    3461                1770    3439            1770    3477
Flt Permitted                        0.46   1.00               0.44    1.00                0.20    1.00            0.40    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     860   3418               815    3461                  379   3439              745   3477
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.57    0.88    0.88      0.95    0.82    0.78        0.82    0.90   0.80     0.94    0.85      0.71
Adj. Flow (vph)                        60    217       64      157     439       76          84    446    104        84    829       111
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      28       0         0      15       0           0      21      0        0      10         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  60    253        0      157     500        0          84    529       0       84    930          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               18.0    18.0              31.5     31.5                48.5   43.0            48.5     43.0
Effective Green, g (s)              18.0    18.0              31.5     31.5                48.5   43.0            48.5     43.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.19    0.19               0.33    0.33                0.51   0.45             0.51    0.45
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0     5.5                 4.0    5.5              4.0     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                 3.0    3.0              3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   163     648               366    1148                  274   1557             440    1574
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.07               0.04   c0.14               c0.02   0.15             0.01   c0.27
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.07                       0.10                        0.14                    0.09
v/c Ratio                           0.37    0.39               0.43    0.44                0.31   0.34             0.19    0.59
Uniform Delay, d1                   33.5    33.7               23.5    24.8                13.2   16.8             12.1    19.4
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00                1.15   1.17             1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                6.3     1.8                0.8     1.2                 0.6    0.6              0.2     1.6
Delay (s)                           39.8    35.5               24.3    26.0                15.9   20.3             12.3    21.1
Level of Service                       D       D                  C       C                   B      C                B       C
Approach Delay (s)                          36.2                       25.6                       19.7                     20.3
Approach LOS                                   D                          C                          B                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             23.5        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.51
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             95.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   64.7%         ICU Level of Service                      C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 5
AM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                      9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           56      54      53       43      33       9         53     497      23      17     832        48
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.94             1.00    0.96               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1746             1770    1789               1770    3539    1583    1770    3507
Flt Permitted                        0.71   1.00              0.57    1.00               0.28    1.00    1.00    0.45    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1318    1746             1069    1789                 513   3539    1583      830   3507
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.74    0.64    0.88     0.72    0.59    0.45       0.58    0.90    0.84    0.43    0.90      0.80
Adj. Flow (vph)                        76      84      60       60      56      20         91     552      27      40     924        60
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      30       0        0      15       0          0       0       7       0       4         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  76    114        0       60      61       0         91    552       20      40    980          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               12.3     12.3            12.3    12.3               71.7    71.7    71.7    71.7     71.7
Effective Green, g (s)              12.3     12.3            12.3    12.3               71.7    71.7    71.7    71.7     71.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13     0.13            0.13    0.13               0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75     0.75
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   171      226             138     232                387    2671    1195     626    2647
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.07                    0.03                        0.16                   c0.28
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.06                     0.06                       0.18            0.01    0.05
v/c Ratio                           0.44     0.50            0.43    0.26               0.24    0.21    0.02    0.06     0.37
Uniform Delay, d1                   38.2     38.5            38.1    37.3                3.5     3.4     2.9     3.0      4.0
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               0.80    0.80    0.67    0.34     0.26
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8      1.8             2.2     0.6                1.4     0.2     0.0     0.2      0.3
Delay (s)                           40.0     40.3            40.3    37.9                4.2     2.9     2.0     1.2      1.4
Level of Service                       D        D               D       D                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                           40.2                    39.0                        3.0                      1.4
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              8.6       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.39
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             95.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   56.4%        ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                                            7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           10      23       8        35      49       5          6     542      12      12     914        18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00               1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.96              1.00    0.97               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1793              1770    1813               1770    3539    1583    1770    3525
Flt Permitted                        0.71   1.00               0.45    1.00               0.24    1.00    1.00    0.42    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1328    1793                842   1813                 444   3539    1583      775   3525
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.83    0.64    0.67      0.74    0.88    0.42       0.38    0.88    0.87    0.50    0.87      0.64
Adj. Flow (vph)                        12      36      12        47      56      12         16     616      14      24   1051         28
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      11       0         0      10       0          0       0       4       0       1         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  12      37       0        47      58       0         16    616       10      24   1078          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                6.6     6.6               15.7   15.7               68.3    68.3    68.3    68.3     68.3
Effective Green, g (s)               6.6     6.6               15.7   15.7               68.3    68.3    68.3    68.3     68.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.07    0.07               0.17   0.17               0.72    0.72    0.72    0.72     0.72
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                    92    125                189    300                319     2544    1138    557     2534
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.02              c0.01   0.03                       0.17                    c0.31
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                      c0.03                      0.04            0.01    0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.13    0.29               0.25   0.19               0.05    0.24    0.01    0.04     0.43
Uniform Delay, d1                   41.5    42.0               34.1   34.2                3.9     4.5     3.8     3.9      5.4
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00   1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00    0.54     0.48
Incremental Delay, d2                0.6     1.3                0.7    0.3                0.3     0.2     0.0     0.1      0.5
Delay (s)                           42.1    43.3               34.8   34.5                4.2     4.8     3.8     2.2      3.1
Level of Service                       D       D                  C      C                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          43.1                      34.6                        4.7                      3.1
Approach LOS                                   D                         C                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              6.8        HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.38
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             95.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   44.6%         ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                                8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL      NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         3     16       26      609   1028       12
Sign Control                        Stop                     Free   Free
Grade                                0%                       0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.75    0.57    0.81     0.91   0.84     0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 4      28      32      669   1224       16
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 TWLTL TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                             2     2
Upstream signal (ft)                                               1227
pX, platoon unblocked               0.90    0.90    0.90
vC, conflicting volume              1631    620     1240
vC1, stage 1 conf vol               1232
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                399
vCu, unblocked vol                  1483    364     1050
tC, single (s)                        6.8    6.9     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5    3.3      2.2
p0 queue free %                       98     95       95
cM capacity (veh/h)                  252    572      594
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    EB 2    NB 1     NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2
Volume Total                           4      28      32      335    335      816       424
Volume Left                            4       0      32        0      0        0         0
Volume Right                           0      28       0        0      0        0        16
cSH                                  252     572     594     1700   1700     1700      1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.02    0.05    0.05     0.20   0.20     0.48      0.25
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1       4       4        0      0        0         0
Control Delay (s)                   19.5    11.6    11.4      0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0
Lane LOS                               C       B       B
Approach Delay (s)                  12.6             0.5                      0.0
Approach LOS                           B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         0.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  38.8%        ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                             Page 8
AM Peak Period                                                                                    9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                         9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         115     286       82     332    1056       46         120     296       84       74    550         193
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9         4.0      6.3     6.3      4.0     6.3        6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.95     1.00    0.97    0.95     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95        1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00        1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539       1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.24    1.00     1.00    0.49    1.00        1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583          438    3539    1583      912    3539       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.77    0.95    0.89     0.78    0.81    0.57        0.86     0.82    0.68     0.73    0.82       0.71
Adj. Flow (vph)                      149     301       92     426    1304       81         140     361      124     101     671         272
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      63        0       0      45            0       0      89        0       0        132
Lane Group Flow (vph)                149     301       29     426    1304       36         140     361       35     101     671        140
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt               Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8            2              2         6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)             7.1       32.9     32.9    16.2     40.1    40.1        35.7    29.7    29.7     35.7     29.7      29.7
Effective Green, g (s)            7.1       32.9     32.9    16.2     40.1    40.1        35.7    29.7    29.7     35.7     29.7      29.7
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.07       0.31     0.31    0.15     0.38    0.38        0.34    0.28    0.28      0.34    0.28      0.28
Clearance Time (s)                5.9        5.9      5.9     4.0      5.9     5.9          4.0    6.3     6.3       4.0     6.3       6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               232        1109     496     530     1352     605         225     1001    448       359    1001       448
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.04       0.09             0.12    c0.37               c0.04    0.10             0.02    c0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.02                     0.02        0.18            0.02      0.08              0.09
v/c Ratio                           0.64    0.27     0.06    0.80     0.96    0.06        0.62    0.36    0.08     0.28     0.67      0.31
Uniform Delay, d1                   47.7    27.1     25.2    42.9     31.8    20.5        25.7    30.1    27.6     24.3     33.3      29.6
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    0.70     0.99    1.12        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                6.0     0.6      0.2     6.9     14.8     0.2         5.3     1.0     0.3       0.4     3.6       1.8
Delay (s)                           53.7    27.7     25.4    36.9     46.3    23.2        31.0    31.1    28.0      24.7    36.9      31.4
Level of Service                       D       C        C       D        D       C           C       C       C         C       D         C
Approach Delay (s)                          34.4                      43.0                        30.4                      34.3
Approach LOS                                   C                         D                           C                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             37.6       HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.81
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                     22.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   74.5%        ICU Level of Service                       D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 9
AM Peak Period                                                                                 10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                 9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        7       2       6      27       1       22        13     222    14      28     440        18
Sign Control                               Stop                    Stop                       Free                  Free
Grade                                       0%                      0%                         0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.44   0.50    0.75     0.75   0.25     0.69      0.81    0.71   0.50   0.78    0.85      0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                16      4       8       36      4       32        16     313     28     36     518        24
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                                   None                  None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              824    974      271     699     972      170       542                   341
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  824    974      271     699     972      170       542                   341
tC, single (s)                       7.5    6.5      6.9     7.5     6.5      6.9       4.1                   4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    4.0      3.3     3.5     4.0      3.3       2.2                   2.2
p0 queue free %                      93     98       99      88      98       96        98                    97
cM capacity (veh/h)                 243    239      727     308     240      844      1023                  1215
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     NB 2      SB 1    SB 2
Volume Total                          20      8      40       32    172      184       295     283
Volume Left                           16      0      36        0     16        0        36       0
Volume Right                           0      8       0       32      0       28         0      24
cSH                                  243    727     299      844   1023     1700      1215    1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.08   0.01    0.13     0.04   0.02     0.11      0.03    0.17
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 7      1      11        3      1        0         2       0
Control Delay (s)                   21.2   10.0    18.9      9.4    0.9      0.0       1.2     0.0
Lane LOS                               C      B       C        A      A                  A
Approach Delay (s)                  18.0           14.7             0.5                0.6
Approach LOS                           C              B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        2.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 38.7%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 10
AM Peak Period                                                                       11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                  9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       164     8        4      10      14     135
Sign Control                        Free                   Stop   Yield
Grade                                0%                     0%      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.93   0.67    0.50    0.50   0.70     0.76
Hourly flow rate (vph)               176     12       8      20      20    178
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0            363    353     365        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0            363    353     365        0
tC, single (s)                       4.1             7.1    6.5     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2             3.5    4.0     4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                       89             98     96      96       84
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623            441    510     502     1085
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                         176     12      28      20    178
Volume Left                          176      0       8       0      0
Volume Right                           0     12       0       0    178
cSH                                 1623   1700     488     502   1085
Volume to Capacity                  0.11   0.01    0.06    0.04   0.16
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 9      0       5       3     15
Control Delay (s)                    7.5    0.0    12.8    12.5    9.0
Lane LOS                               A              B       B      A
Approach Delay (s)                   7.0           12.8     9.3
Approach LOS                                          B       A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        8.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 19.8%       ICU Level of Service          A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                     Page 11
AM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                      9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           12    123       44       66      89      16         41    136       80      18     262        21
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.96             1.00    0.97               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1790             1770    1806               1770    1863    1583    1770    1833
Flt Permitted                        0.67   1.00              0.63    1.00               0.56    1.00    1.00    0.66    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1245    1790             1178    1806               1039    1863    1583    1221    1833
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.75    0.83    0.85     0.85    0.80    0.57       0.85    0.85    0.87    0.64    0.87      0.58
Adj. Flow (vph)                        16    148       52       78    111       28         48    160       92      28     301        36
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      33       0        0      23       0          0       0      41       0       7         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  16    167        0       78    116        0         48    160       51      28    330          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                7.8      7.8             7.8     7.8               23.6    23.6    23.6    23.6     23.6
Effective Green, g (s)               7.8      7.8             7.8     7.8               23.6    23.6    23.6    23.6     23.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.18     0.18            0.18    0.18               0.56    0.56    0.56    0.56     0.56
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  229      329             217     332                578     1037    881     680     1020
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.09                    0.06                        0.09                   c0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.07                       0.05            0.03    0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.07     0.51            0.36    0.35               0.08    0.15    0.06    0.04     0.32
Uniform Delay, d1                   14.3     15.6            15.1    15.1                4.4     4.6     4.3     4.3      5.1
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      1.2             1.0     0.6                0.3     0.3     0.1     0.1      0.8
Delay (s)                           14.4     16.8            16.1    15.7                4.7     4.9     4.4     4.4      5.9
Level of Service                       B        B               B       B                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                           16.6                    15.9                        4.7                      5.8
Approach LOS                                    B                       B                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.6       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.37
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             42.4       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   60.9%        ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
AM Peak Period                                                                                  13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                            4      47       5       64      51      31          5     592      55      114   1791         23
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.97             1.00    0.94               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1810             1770    1751               1770    3539    1583     1770    3529
Flt Permitted                        0.69   1.00              0.72    1.00               0.10    1.00    1.00     0.37    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1290    1810             1332    1751                 178   3539    1583       690   3529
Peak-hour factor, PHF                1.00    0.90    0.42     0.78    0.85    0.78       0.63    0.91    0.76     0.81    0.96      0.64
Adj. Flow (vph)                         4      52      12       82      60      40          8     651      72      141   1866         36
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      10       0        0      27       0          0       0      24        0       1         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   4      54       0       82      73       0          8    651       48     141    1901          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                         2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               11.9    11.9              11.9   11.9               70.1    70.1    70.1     81.6     81.6
Effective Green, g (s)              11.9    11.9              11.9   11.9               70.1    70.1    70.1     81.6     81.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.11    0.11              0.11   0.11               0.67    0.67    0.67      0.78    0.78
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5    5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   146     205               151    198                119    2363    1057      613    2743
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.03                     0.04                        0.18             0.02   c0.54
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.00                     c0.06                      0.04            0.03      0.16
v/c Ratio                           0.03    0.26              0.54   0.37               0.07    0.28    0.05      0.23    0.69
Uniform Delay, d1                   41.4    42.6              44.0   43.1                6.1     7.1     6.0       3.1     5.7
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00   1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     0.7               3.9    1.2                1.1     0.3     0.1       0.2     1.5
Delay (s)                           41.5    43.2              47.9   44.2                7.2     7.4     6.1       3.3     7.1
Level of Service                       D       D                 D      D                  A       A       A         A       A
Approach Delay (s)                          43.1                     45.9                        7.3                       6.9
Approach LOS                                   D                        D                          A                         A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.1       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.67
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   83.4%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 13
PM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       300     499       26        27    320       81        32     131         10     49       63       121
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5             5.5        5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00      1.00            1.00       1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    0.97                       1.00      0.85            1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.99      1.00            0.98       1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3514              1770    3426                       1844      1583            1829       1583
Flt Permitted                     0.41    1.00               0.40    1.00                       0.91      1.00            0.79       1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  757    3514               738    3426                       1701      1583            1474       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.81     0.78    0.81      0.48    0.87    0.81       0.73    0.74      0.50    0.94    0.72       0.76
Adj. Flow (vph)                    370     640       32        56    368     100          44    177         20      52      88       159
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0      19       0          0       0        14       0       0        114
Lane Group Flow (vph)             370      669        0        56    449        0          0    221          6       0    140          45
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm               Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                  6
Actuated Green, G (s)             64.0    56.0              48.0    44.0                        29.5     29.5            29.5       29.5
Effective Green, g (s)            64.0    56.0              48.0    44.0                        29.5     29.5            29.5       29.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.61    0.53               0.46   0.42                        0.28     0.28            0.28       0.28
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0    6.0                         5.5      5.5             5.5        5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                         3.0      3.0             3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 616    1874               377    1436                         478      445             414        445
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.09    0.19              0.01    0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.27                       0.06                              c0.13     0.00            0.09       0.03
v/c Ratio                         0.60    0.36               0.15   0.31                        0.46     0.01            0.34       0.10
Uniform Delay, d1                 10.6    14.1               16.0   20.4                        31.2     27.2            30.0       27.9
Progression Factor                0.47    0.53              1.00    1.00                        1.00     1.00            1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.5     0.5                0.2    0.6                         3.2      0.1             2.2        0.5
Delay (s)                          6.5     8.0               16.2   21.0                        34.4     27.3            32.2       28.4
Level of Service                     A       A                  B      C                           C        C               C          C
Approach Delay (s)                         7.5                      20.5                        33.8                     30.2
Approach LOS                                 A                         C                           C                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           16.9        HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.54
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                       9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 69.6%         ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                           2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           57    577       67       185    347       19         70      90    304      20        9         28
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0     5.0             5.0        5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00       1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00    0.99               1.00    1.00    0.85            1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00            0.97       1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3464              1770    3491               1770    1863    1583            1798       1583
Flt Permitted                        0.51   1.00               0.32    1.00               0.73    1.00    1.00            0.65       1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     948   3464                593   3491               1358    1863    1583            1214       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.77    0.90    0.64      0.85    0.92    0.50       0.75    0.64    0.81    0.64    0.75       0.83
Adj. Flow (vph)                        74    641     105        218    377       38         93    141     375       31      12         34
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       9       0         0       4       0          0       0     325       0       0         29
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  74    737        0       218    411        0         93    141       50       0      43          5
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm               Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2                2      6                  6
Actuated Green, G (s)               57.0     57.0              81.0   81.0               14.0     14.0    14.0           14.0       14.0
Effective Green, g (s)              57.0     57.0              81.0   81.0               14.0     14.0    14.0           14.0       14.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.54     0.54              0.77   0.77               0.13     0.13    0.13           0.13       0.13
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0               5.0    5.0                5.0      5.0     5.0            5.0        5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0     3.0            3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   515    1880                670   2693                181      248     211            162       211
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.21             c0.06   0.12                       c0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.08                       0.19                      0.07             0.03           0.04       0.00
v/c Ratio                           0.14     0.39              0.33   0.15               0.51     0.57    0.24           0.27       0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                   11.9     13.9               7.3    3.1               42.3     42.7    40.7           40.9       39.5
Progression Factor                  0.88     0.96              1.05   0.35               1.00     1.00    1.00           1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5      0.5               0.3    0.1                2.5      3.0     0.6            0.9        0.0
Delay (s)                           10.9     13.9               8.0    1.2               44.8     45.6    41.3           41.8       39.6
Level of Service                       B        B                 A      A                  D        D       D              D          D
Approach Delay (s)                           13.7                      3.5                        42.8                   40.8
Approach LOS                                    B                        A                           D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             20.0        HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.39
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   52.7%         ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                         3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                               5/15/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         189      18       3     425     178       87
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900   1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00            1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Frt                                  0.97           1.00     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                       0.96            0.95     1.00    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1734           1770     1863    1863    1583
Flt Permitted                       0.96            0.27     1.00    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1734             501    1863    1863    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.89   0.25    0.38     0.50    0.25    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      212      72       8     850     712     102
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   21      0       0        0       0      43
Lane Group Flow (vph)                263       0       8     850     712       59
Turn Type                                          Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                       4                       2       6
Permitted Phases                                       2                        6
Actuated Green, G (s)            12.6               30.7     30.7   30.7     30.7
Effective Green, g (s)           12.6               30.7     30.7   30.7     30.7
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.24               0.58     0.58   0.58     0.58
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0      5.0    5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                410                289    1073    1073      912
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.15                       c0.46   0.38
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.02                     0.04
v/c Ratio                           0.64            0.03     0.79   0.66     0.06
Uniform Delay, d1                   18.3             4.9      8.8    7.8      5.0
Progression Factor                  1.00            1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                3.4             0.0      4.1    1.6      0.0
Delay (s)                           21.7             4.9     12.9    9.3      5.0
Level of Service                       C               A        B      A        A
Approach Delay (s)                  21.7                     12.8    8.8
Approach LOS                           C                        B      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            12.4       HCM Level of Service      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.75
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            53.3       Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  42.3%        ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                     Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                     9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       384    1259       26        99    602       47         27        3     54      54    101        176
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97    0.91              1.00    0.91                0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    0.98               1.00     0.86           1.00    0.90
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 3433    5065              1770    4990               3433     3057           3433    3202
Flt Permitted                     0.30    1.00               0.09    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 1101    5065               173    4990               3433     3057           3433    3202
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.50     0.87    0.65      0.88    0.91    0.50       0.68     0.38   0.68    0.84    0.50      0.50
Adj. Flow (vph)                    768    1447       40      112     662       94         40        8     79      64     202       352
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0      17       0          0       53      0       0     179         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)              768    1484        0      112     739        0         40       34      0      64    375          0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                        Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)             49.0    43.0              49.0    43.0                4.2     37.5             6.4    36.8
Effective Green, g (s)            49.0    43.0              49.0    43.0                4.2     37.5             6.4    36.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.43    0.37               0.43   0.37               0.04     0.33            0.06    0.32
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     7.2                4.0    7.2                6.9      6.9             4.0     6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 591    1894               157    1866               125      997             191    1025
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.07    0.29              0.04    0.15               0.01     0.01           c0.02   c0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.49                       0.27
v/c Ratio                         1.30    0.78               0.71   0.40               0.32     0.03            0.34    0.37
Uniform Delay, d1                 30.6    31.9               23.7   26.5               54.0     26.4            52.3    30.1
Progression Factor                1.38    1.33              1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2            146.1     3.1              14.2     0.6                1.5      0.1             1.0     1.0
Delay (s)                        188.4    45.4               38.0   27.1               55.5     26.5            53.3    31.1
Level of Service                     F       D                  D      C                  E        C               D       C
Approach Delay (s)                        94.1                      28.5                        35.6                    33.4
Approach LOS                                 F                         C                           D                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           67.8        HCM Level of Service                      E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.83
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          115.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    18.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 58.4%         ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                                            5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           81    368       34       175    280      102          75   1048      75     146     651         68
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.99              1.00    0.96                1.00    0.99            1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3488              1770    3396                1770    3501            1770    3486
Flt Permitted                        0.48   1.00               0.29    1.00                0.26    1.00            0.09    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     895   3488                544   3396                  477   3501              166   3486
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.84    0.86    0.74      0.95    0.81    0.80        0.89    0.87   0.80     0.93    0.90      0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        96    428       46       184    346     128           84   1205      94      157    723         80
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       8       0         0      36       0           0       5      0        0       8         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  96    466        0       184    438        0          84   1294       0      157    795          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               25.0    25.0               39.5   39.5                49.1     43.5            51.9   44.9
Effective Green, g (s)              25.0    25.0               39.5   39.5                49.1     43.5            51.9   44.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24    0.24               0.38   0.38                 0.47    0.41            0.49   0.43
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5             4.0    5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0             3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   213     830                327   1278                 292    1450              189   1491
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.13              c0.06   0.13                 0.02   c0.37           c0.06   0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.11                      c0.16                        0.12                    0.36
v/c Ratio                           0.45    0.56               0.56   0.34                 0.29    0.89            0.83   0.53
Uniform Delay, d1                   34.1    35.2               23.6   23.5                 16.4    28.6            21.8   22.3
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.88   0.88                1.17     0.88            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                6.7     2.7                2.2    0.7                  0.5     7.7            25.5    1.4
Delay (s)                           40.9    37.9               23.0   21.4                 19.7    32.8            47.3   23.6
Level of Service                       D       D                  C      C                    B       C               D      C
Approach Delay (s)                          38.4                      21.8                         32.0                   27.5
Approach LOS                                   D                         C                            C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             30.0        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.72
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    13.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   77.5%         ICU Level of Service                      D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 5
PM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                      9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           96    165       84       39      35      14         64   1130       27      11     793        68
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.95             1.00    0.95               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1777             1770    1761               1770    3539    1583    1770    3488
Flt Permitted                        0.71   1.00              0.28    1.00               0.27    1.00    1.00    0.17    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1330    1777               529   1761                 497   3539    1583      308   3488
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.86    0.79    0.91     0.70    0.84    0.58       0.73    0.86    0.81    0.55    0.91      0.74
Adj. Flow (vph)                      112     209       92       56      42      24         88   1314       33      20     871        92
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      17       0        0      19       0          0       0       4       0       6         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                112     284        0       56      47       0         88   1314       29      20    957          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               22.0     22.0            22.0    22.0               72.0     72.0   72.0    72.0    72.0
Effective Green, g (s)              22.0     22.0            22.0    22.0               72.0     72.0   72.0    72.0    72.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.21     0.21            0.21    0.21               0.69     0.69   0.69    0.69    0.69
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   279      372             111     369                341    2427    1085     211    2392
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.16                    0.03                       c0.37                    0.27
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.08                     0.11                       0.18            0.02    0.06
v/c Ratio                           0.40     0.76            0.50    0.13               0.26     0.54   0.03    0.09    0.40
Uniform Delay, d1                   35.8     39.1            36.7    33.7                6.3      8.2    5.3     5.5     7.1
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               0.52     0.46   0.51    0.72    0.69
Incremental Delay, d2                0.9      9.0             3.6     0.2                1.5      0.7    0.0     0.8     0.4
Delay (s)                           36.8     48.1            40.3    33.9                4.8      4.5    2.7     4.7     5.3
Level of Service                       D        D               D       C                  A        A      A       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                           45.0                    36.8                         4.5                    5.3
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                           A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             11.8       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.59
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   80.0%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                                            7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           17      90      10        92      16      10         12   1203       69      22     891        10
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00               1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00    0.93               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1830              1770    1735               1770    3539    1583    1770    3533
Flt Permitted                        0.73   1.00               0.40    1.00               0.26    1.00    1.00    0.14    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1368    1830                746   1735                 484   3539    1583      261   3533
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.61    0.75    0.63      0.79    0.83    0.63       0.60    0.87    0.78    0.42    0.94      0.83
Adj. Flow (vph)                        28    120       16       116      19      16         20   1383       88      52     948        12
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       4       0         0      12       0          0       0      31       0       1         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  28    132        0       116      23       0         20   1383       57      52    959          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               11.3     11.3              25.6   25.6               68.4     68.4   68.4    68.4    68.4
Effective Green, g (s)              11.3     11.3              25.6   25.6               68.4     68.4   68.4    68.4    68.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.11     0.11              0.24   0.24               0.65     0.65   0.65    0.65    0.65
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5               4.0    5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   147      197               282    423                315    2305    1031     170    2301
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.07             c0.04   0.01                       c0.39                    0.27
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02                       0.06                      0.04            0.04    0.20
v/c Ratio                           0.19     0.67              0.41   0.05               0.06     0.60   0.06    0.31    0.42
Uniform Delay, d1                   42.7     45.0              32.3   30.4                6.7     10.5    6.6     8.0     8.8
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00              1.22   1.31               1.00     1.00   1.00    1.81    1.76
Incremental Delay, d2                0.6      8.3               1.0    0.1                0.4      1.2    0.1     4.3     0.5
Delay (s)                           43.3     53.3              40.3   39.9                7.0     11.6    6.7    18.7    16.0
Level of Service                       D        D                 D      D                  A        B      A       B       B
Approach Delay (s)                           51.6                     40.2                        11.3                   16.1
Approach LOS                                    D                        D                           B                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             16.9        HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.59
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                   15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   54.2%         ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                                8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL      NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         7     28       21     1140    980       12
Sign Control                        Stop                     Free   Free
Grade                                0%                       0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.44    0.64    0.66     0.92   0.97     0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                16      44      32     1239   1010       16
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 TWLTL TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                             2     2
Upstream signal (ft)                                               1227
pX, platoon unblocked               0.90    0.90    0.90
vC, conflicting volume              1702    513     1026
vC1, stage 1 conf vol               1018
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                683
vCu, unblocked vol                  1557    236      806
tC, single (s)                        6.8    6.9      4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5    3.3      2.2
p0 queue free %                       94     94       96
cM capacity (veh/h)                  287    689      733
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    EB 2    NB 1     NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2
Volume Total                          16      44      32      620    620      674       353
Volume Left                           16       0      32        0      0        0         0
Volume Right                           0      44       0        0      0        0        16
cSH                                  287     689     733     1700   1700     1700      1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.06    0.06    0.04     0.36   0.36     0.40      0.21
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 4       5       3        0      0        0         0
Control Delay (s)                   18.3    10.6    10.1      0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0
Lane LOS                               C       B       B
Approach Delay (s)                  12.6             0.3                      0.0
Approach LOS                           B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         0.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  41.5%        ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                             Page 8
PM Peak Period                                                                                    9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                         9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         135     921       82     128     485       67         252     565     235      105     497        185
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9         4.0      6.3     6.3      4.0     6.3        6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.95     1.00    0.97    0.95     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95        1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00       0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00        1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539       1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.31    1.00     1.00    0.26    1.00        1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583          580    3539    1583      481    3539       1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.90    0.94    0.71     0.80    0.75    0.85        0.80     0.87    0.72     0.73    0.91       0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                      150     980     115      160     647       79         315     649     326      144     546        208
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      70        0       0      64            0       0     154        0       0        149
Lane Group Flow (vph)                150     980       45     160     647       15         315     649     172      144     546          59
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt               Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8            2              2         6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)               27.1     45.1    45.1     6.0     22.1    22.1        44.6    33.6    33.6     42.8    32.7       32.7
Effective Green, g (s)              27.1     45.1    45.1     6.0     22.1    22.1        44.6    33.6    33.6     42.8    32.7       32.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24     0.39    0.39    0.05     0.19    0.19        0.39    0.29    0.29      0.37   0.28       0.28
Clearance Time (s)                   5.9      5.9     5.9     4.0      5.9     5.9          4.0    6.3     6.3       4.0    6.3        6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0    3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   809    1388      621    179      680     304         339     1034    463       292    1006       450
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.04    c0.28            0.05    c0.18               c0.09    0.18             0.04    0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.03                     0.01       c0.27            0.11      0.14              0.04
v/c Ratio                           0.19     0.71    0.07    0.89     0.95    0.05        0.93    0.63    0.37     0.49    0.54       0.13
Uniform Delay, d1                   35.1     29.4    21.9    54.2     45.9    37.9        30.4    35.3    32.3     25.4    34.8       30.6
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00    1.14     1.44    3.01        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      3.0     0.2    36.8     23.4     0.3        30.9     2.9     2.3       1.3    2.1        0.6
Delay (s)                           35.2     32.4    22.1    98.5     89.5   114.3        61.3    38.2    34.6     26.7    36.9       31.2
Level of Service                       D        C       C       F        F       F            E      D       C         C      D          C
Approach Delay (s)                           31.8                     93.3                        42.9                     34.0
Approach LOS                                    C                        F                           D                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             48.2       HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.79
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            115.0       Sum of lost time (s)                       9.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   75.0%        ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 9
PM Peak Period                                                                                 10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                 9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        8       0       9      12       0       37         3     604    22     37      434         3
Sign Control                               Stop                    Stop                       Free                  Free
Grade                                       0%                      0%                         0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.33   1.00    0.38     0.60   1.00     0.66      0.75    0.92   0.92   0.77    0.88      0.75
Hourly flow rate (vph)                24      0      24       20      0       56         4     657     24     48     493         4
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                                                   None                 None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              984    1280     249    1043    1270      340       497                  680
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  984    1280     249    1043    1270      340       497                  680
tC, single (s)                       7.5    6.5      6.9    7.5     6.5       6.9       4.1                  4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    4.0      3.3     3.5     4.0      3.3       2.2                  2.2
p0 queue free %                      86    100       97      88     100       91       100                   95
cM capacity (veh/h)                 178    155      751     170     157      656      1063                  908
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     NB 2      SB 1    SB 2
Volume Total                          24     24      20       56    332      352       295     251
Volume Left                           24      0      20        0      4        0        48       0
Volume Right                           0     24       0       56      0       24         0       4
cSH                                  178    751     170      656   1063     1700       908    1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.14   0.03    0.12     0.09   0.00     0.21      0.05    0.15
Queue Length 95th (ft)                12      2      10        7      0        0         4       0
Control Delay (s)                   28.5    9.9    29.0     11.0    0.1      0.0       2.0     0.0
Lane LOS                               D      A       D        B      A                  A
Approach Delay (s)                  19.3           15.7             0.1                1.1
Approach LOS                           C              C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        2.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 48.0%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 10
PM Peak Period                                                                       11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                  9/9/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       378     6        0      11       3     160
Sign Control                        Free                   Stop   Yield
Grade                                0%                     0%      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.95   0.38    1.00    0.55   0.38     0.89
Hourly flow rate (vph)               398     16       0      20       8    180
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0            800    796     812        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0            800    796     812        0
tC, single (s)                       4.1             7.1    6.5     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2             3.5    4.0     4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                       75            100     92      97       83
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623            200    241     236     1085
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                         398     16      20       8    180
Volume Left                          398      0       0       0      0
Volume Right                           0     16       0       0    180
cSH                                 1623   1700     241     236   1085
Volume to Capacity                  0.25   0.01    0.08    0.03   0.17
Queue Length 95th (ft)                24      0       7       3     15
Control Delay (s)                    7.9    0.0    21.2    20.8    9.0
Lane LOS                               A              C       C      A
Approach Delay (s)                   7.6           21.2     9.5
Approach LOS                                          C       A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        8.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 30.9%       ICU Level of Service          A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                     Page 11
PM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                      9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           38    172       23       65    111       16         52    374     182        8    156         17
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.97             1.00    0.98               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1814             1770    1826               1770    1863    1583    1770    1827
Flt Permitted                        0.66   1.00              0.60    1.00               0.62    1.00    1.00    0.48    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1231    1814             1124    1826               1161    1863    1583      898   1827
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.86    0.83    0.52     0.83    0.85    0.80       0.72    0.87    0.83    0.67    0.83      0.61
Adj. Flow (vph)                        44    207       44       78    131       20         72    430     219       12     188        28
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      18       0        0      13       0          0       0     107       0       9         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  44    233        0       78    138        0         72    430     112       12    207          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               10.8     10.8            10.8    10.8               22.8     22.8   22.8    22.8    22.8
Effective Green, g (s)              10.8     10.8            10.8    10.8               22.8     22.8   22.8    22.8    22.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24     0.24            0.24    0.24               0.51     0.51   0.51    0.51    0.51
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   298      439             272     442                594      952    809     459     934
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.13                    0.08                       c0.23                   0.11
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.04                     0.07                       0.06            0.07    0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.15     0.53            0.29    0.31               0.12     0.45   0.14    0.03    0.22
Uniform Delay, d1                   13.3     14.7            13.8    13.9                5.7      6.9    5.7     5.4     6.0
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.2      1.2             0.6     0.4                0.4      1.5    0.4     0.1     0.5
Delay (s)                           13.5     15.9            14.3    14.3                6.1      8.5    6.1     5.5     6.6
Level of Service                       B        B               B       B                  A        A      A       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                           15.6                    14.3                         7.5                    6.5
Approach LOS                                    B                       B                           A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.0       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.48
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             44.6       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   66.8%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
PM Peak Period                                                                                   13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Short Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/9/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           11      96      26       44      51      68         15   1653       77       47   1453         14
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.97             1.00    0.92               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1808             1770    1716               1770    3539    1583     1770    3534
Flt Permitted                        0.47   1.00              0.46    1.00               0.15    1.00    1.00     0.08    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     878   1808               853   1716                 278   3539    1583       143   3534
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.73    0.81     0.82    0.67    0.81       0.75    0.95    0.84     0.62    0.94      0.88
Adj. Flow (vph)                        12    132       32       54      76      84         20   1740       92       76   1546         16
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       9       0        0      39       0          0       0      26        0       0         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  12    155        0       54    121        0         20   1740       66       76   1562          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               15.1     15.1            15.1    15.1               78.5     78.5   78.5     88.4     88.4
Effective Green, g (s)              15.1     15.1            15.1    15.1               78.5     78.5   78.5     88.4     88.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13     0.13            0.13    0.13               0.68     0.68   0.68      0.77    0.77
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   115      237             112     225                190    2416    1081      193    2717
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.09                    0.07                       c0.49             0.02   c0.44
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.06                       0.07            0.04      0.28
v/c Ratio                           0.10     0.66            0.48    0.54               0.11     0.72   0.06      0.39    0.57
Uniform Delay, d1                   44.0     47.5            46.3    46.7                6.2     11.4    6.0      11.2     5.5
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.4      6.4             3.2     2.5                1.1      1.9    0.1       1.3     0.9
Delay (s)                           44.4     53.9            49.6    49.1                7.4     13.3    6.2      12.5     6.4
Level of Service                       D        D               D       D                  A        B      A         B       A
Approach Delay (s)                           53.2                    49.3                        12.9                      6.7
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                           B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             14.1       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.72
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            115.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   17.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   72.5%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 13
AM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        74     244       30        44    589       36        23       29        10     86      100     237
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5             5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.98              1.00    0.99                       1.00      0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.98      1.00            0.98    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3482              1770    3509                       1822      1583            1821    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.28    1.00               0.56    1.00                       0.83      1.00            0.83    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  514    3482              1037    3509                       1552      1583            1540    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                     87     287       35        52    693       42         27      34        12     101     118     279
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0       13       0         0       6       0          0       0         8       0       0     172
Lane Group Flow (vph)               87     309        0        52    729        0          0      61         4       0     219     107
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)             33.8    29.0              30.2     27.2                      22.5      22.5             22.5    22.5
Effective Green, g (s)            33.8    29.0              30.2     27.2                      22.5      22.5             22.5    22.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.48    0.41               0.43    0.39                      0.32      0.32             0.32    0.32
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0     6.0                       5.5       5.5              5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                       3.0       3.0              3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 334    1443               479    1363                        499       509              495     509
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.02    0.09              0.00    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.11                       0.04                              0.04      0.00            c0.14    0.07
v/c Ratio                         0.26    0.21               0.11    0.53                      0.12      0.01             0.44    0.21
Uniform Delay, d1                 10.3    13.2               11.7    16.5                      16.8      16.2             18.8    17.3
Progression Factor                0.64    0.61              1.00     1.00                      1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.4     0.3                0.1     1.5                       0.5       0.0              2.9     0.9
Delay (s)                          7.1     8.4               11.8    18.0                      17.3      16.2             21.6    18.2
Level of Service                     A       A                  B       B                         B         B                C       B
Approach Delay (s)                         8.1                       17.6                      17.1                       19.7
Approach LOS                                 A                          B                         B                          B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           16.0        HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.51
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     19.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 55.5%         ICU Level of Service                        B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                           2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           19    164       30       428    488       14         70      58    144      13       10      48
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0     5.0             5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00    0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00            0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3458              1770    3525               1770    1863    1583            1812    1583
Flt Permitted                        0.43   1.00               0.61    1.00               0.74    1.00    1.00            0.82    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     800   3458              1135    3525               1378    1863    1583            1529    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        22    193       35       504    574       16         82      68    169       15      12      56
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      18       0         0       2       0          0       0     146       0       0      48
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  22    210        0       504    588        0         82      68      23       0      27       8
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                          2               2      6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)               26.5    26.5               50.5   50.5                 9.5    9.5      9.5            9.5      9.5
Effective Green, g (s)              26.5    26.5               50.5   50.5                 9.5    9.5      9.5            9.5      9.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.38    0.38               0.72   0.72                0.14   0.14     0.14           0.14     0.14
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0               5.0    5.0                 5.0    5.0      5.0            5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                 3.0    3.0      3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   303    1309                991   2543                187    253      215            208      215
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.06             c0.14   0.17                       0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.03                      c0.23                      c0.06            0.01           0.02     0.00
v/c Ratio                           0.07    0.16               0.51   0.23                0.44   0.27     0.11           0.13     0.04
Uniform Delay, d1                   13.9    14.4                4.9    3.3                27.8   27.1     26.5           26.6     26.3
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.56   0.31                1.00   1.00     1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5     0.3                0.4    0.2                 1.6    0.6      0.2            0.3      0.1
Delay (s)                           14.4    14.7                3.1    1.2                29.4   27.7     26.7           26.9     26.3
Level of Service                       B       B                  A      A                   C      C        C              C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          14.6                       2.1                       27.6                    26.5
Approach LOS                                   B                         A                          C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.7        HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   52.2%         ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                          3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                  9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           90       5       5     188     422       10
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00     1.00    1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                       0.95     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583    1770     3539    3527
Flt Permitted                       0.95     1.00    0.47    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583      866    3539    3527
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      106        6       6     221     496       12
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       5       0        0       3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                106        1       6     221     505        0
Turn Type                                   Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                       4                        2       6
Permitted Phases                               4        2
Actuated Green, G (s)             4.6        4.6     18.8    18.8     18.8
Effective Green, g (s)            4.6        4.6     18.8    18.8     18.8
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.14       0.14     0.56    0.56     0.56
Clearance Time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               244        218      487     1992    1985
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.06                         0.06   c0.14
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.00     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.43    0.00     0.01    0.11     0.25
Uniform Delay, d1                   13.2    12.4      3.2     3.4      3.7
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.2     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.1
Delay (s)                           14.4    12.4      3.2     3.4      3.8
Level of Service                       B       B        A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                  14.3                      3.4      3.8
Approach LOS                           B                        A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              5.1       HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.29
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             33.4       Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   25.3%        ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                   9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         5     586       18        44   1415       38         10        5     16       8       5    255
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97    0.91              1.00    0.91                0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00               1.00     0.89           1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     5063              1770    5065               3433     3136           3433    3019
Flt Permitted                     0.10    1.00               0.29    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  350    5063               546    5065               3433     3136           3433    3019
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85     0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      6     689       21        52   1665       45         12        6     19       9       6     300
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0       2       0          0       12      0       0      76       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                6     707        0        52   1708        0         12       13      0       9     230       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                        Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)             42.3    41.3              44.3     44.3                0.8    41.6            1.0     38.9
Effective Green, g (s)            42.3    41.3              44.3     44.3                0.8    41.6            1.0     38.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.38    0.38               0.40    0.40               0.01    0.38           0.01     0.35
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     7.2                4.0     7.2                6.9     6.9            4.0      6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 163    1901               264    2040                  25   1186              31    1068
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.00    0.14              0.01    c0.34              c0.00   c0.00           0.00    c0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.01                       0.07
v/c Ratio                         0.04    0.37               0.20    0.84               0.48    0.01           0.29     0.22
Uniform Delay, d1                 35.2    24.9               20.6    29.6               54.4    21.4           54.1     24.9
Progression Factor                0.57    0.60              1.00     1.00               1.00    1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1     0.5                0.4     4.3               13.8     0.0            5.1      0.5
Delay (s)                         20.3    15.4               20.9    33.9               68.2    21.4           59.3     25.3
Level of Service                     C       B                  C       C                  E       C              E        C
Approach Delay (s)                        15.5                       33.5                       36.6                    26.3
Approach LOS                                 B                          C                          D                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           28.2        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.59
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          110.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    31.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 55.0%         ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                                            5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                      9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           39      76      64       211    357       67          79    451      95       90    799      90
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.93              1.00    0.98                1.00    0.97            1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3296              1770    3455                1770    3447            1770    3485
Flt Permitted                        0.47   1.00               0.53    1.00                0.21    1.00            0.27    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     874   3296                978   3455                  391   3447              497   3485
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85    0.85   0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        46      89      75       248    420       79          93    531    112      106     940     106
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      58       0         0      21       0           0      23      0        0      11       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  46    106        0       248    478        0          93    620       0     106    1035        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               17.1    17.1               26.1   26.1                31.4     29.9           29.9     29.9
Effective Green, g (s)              17.1    17.1               26.1   26.1                31.4     29.9           29.9     29.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.23    0.23               0.35   0.35                 0.42    0.40            0.40    0.40
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   199     751                393   1202                 237    1374             266    1389
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.03              c0.04   0.14                 0.02   c0.18            0.02   c0.30
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.05                      c0.18                        0.14                    0.14
v/c Ratio                           0.23    0.14               0.63   0.40                 0.39    0.45            0.40    0.74
Uniform Delay, d1                   23.6    23.1               20.1   18.5                 20.4    16.5            15.0    19.3
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00   1.00                1.09     1.08            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                2.7     0.4                3.3    1.0                  1.1     1.1             1.0     3.7
Delay (s)                           26.3    23.5               23.4   19.5                 23.3    18.9            16.0    23.0
Level of Service                       C       C                  C      B                    C       B               B       C
Approach Delay (s)                          24.1                      20.8                         19.5                    22.3
Approach LOS                                   C                         C                            B                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             21.3        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.62
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             75.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   68.4%         ICU Level of Service                      C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 5
AM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           64      62      60       49      38      10         60    561       26      19     985     55
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.93             1.00    0.97               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1725             1770    1804               1770    3539    1583    1770    3511
Flt Permitted                        0.72   1.00              0.65    1.00               0.21    1.00    1.00    0.40    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1341    1725             1206    1804                 383   3539    1583      747   3511
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        75      73      71       58      45      12         71     660      31      22   1159       65
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      57       0        0      11       0          0       0       8       0       3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  75      87       0       58      46       0         71    660       23      22   1221        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                9.0     9.0              9.0     9.0               55.0    55.0    55.0    55.0     55.0
Effective Green, g (s)               9.0     9.0              9.0     9.0               55.0    55.0    55.0    55.0     55.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.12    0.12             0.12    0.12               0.73    0.73    0.73    0.73     0.73
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0              3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  161     207              145     216                281     2595    1161    548     2575
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.05                     0.03                        0.19                   c0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                  c0.06                        0.05                       0.19            0.01    0.03
v/c Ratio                        0.47       0.42             0.40    0.22               0.25    0.25    0.02    0.04     0.47
Uniform Delay, d1                30.8       30.6             30.5    29.8                3.3     3.3     2.7     2.7      4.1
Progression Factor               1.00       1.00             1.00    1.00               0.67    0.59    0.78    0.25     0.25
Incremental Delay, d2             2.1        1.4              1.8     0.5                2.1     0.2     0.0     0.1      0.5
Delay (s)                        32.9       32.0             32.3    30.3                4.3     2.2     2.1     0.8      1.5
Level of Service                    C          C                C       C                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          32.3                     31.3                        2.4                      1.5
Approach LOS                                   C                        C                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              6.1       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             75.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   72.3%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                                       7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                             9/11/2008



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL       SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         5       5      619     14       5     1058
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                                0%               0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85   0.85     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 6        6     728      16      6     1245
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         TWLTL                   TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                     2                       2
Upstream signal (ft)                                 1227                     875
pX, platoon unblocked               0.89
vC, conflicting volume              1362     364                     745
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                728
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                634
vCu, unblocked vol                  1150     364                     745
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                       98      99                      99
cM capacity (veh/h)                  380     633                     859
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2   SB 3
Volume Total                        6           6     364     364     16        6       622    622
Volume Left                         6           0       0       0      0        6         0      0
Volume Right                        0           6       0       0     16        0         0      0
cSH                               380         633    1700    1700   1700      859      1700   1700
Volume to Capacity               0.02        0.01    0.21    0.21   0.01     0.01      0.37   0.37
Queue Length 95th (ft)              1           1       0       0      0        1         0      0
Control Delay (s)                14.6        10.7     0.0     0.0    0.0      9.2       0.0    0.0
Lane LOS                            B           B                               A
Approach Delay (s)               12.7                  0.0                    0.0
Approach LOS                        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   39.2%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                                      8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                   9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                            9    144       16       34    131        5         30    694       5       5   1121     100
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0              5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0            5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.98             1.00    0.99               1.00    1.00           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1835             1770    1852               1770    3535           1770    3496
Flt Permitted                        0.60   1.00              0.52    1.00               0.14    1.00           0.33    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1116    1835               975   1852                 270   3535             611   3496
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        11    169       19       40    154        6         35     816      6       6   1319      118
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       6       0        0       2       0          0       1      0       0       8       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  11    182        0       40    158        0         35    821       0       6   1429        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm                   Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                      6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2                      6
Actuated Green, G (s)               12.6     12.6            12.6    12.6               52.4    52.4           52.4     52.4
Effective Green, g (s)              12.6     12.6            12.6    12.6               52.4    52.4           52.4     52.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.17     0.17            0.17    0.17               0.70    0.70           0.70     0.70
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0             5.0     5.0                5.0      5.0           5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0           3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   187      308             164     311                189    2470            427    2443
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.10                    0.09                        0.23                  c0.41
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.04                       0.13                   0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.06     0.59            0.24    0.51               0.19    0.33           0.01     0.59
Uniform Delay, d1                   26.2     28.8            27.1    28.4                3.9     4.4            3.4      5.8
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00           0.57     0.77
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      3.0             0.8     1.3                2.2     0.4            0.1      1.0
Delay (s)                           26.3     31.9            27.8    29.7                6.1     4.8            2.0      5.4
Level of Service                       C        C               C       C                  A       A              A        A
Approach Delay (s)                           31.5                    29.3                        4.8                     5.4
Approach LOS                                    C                       C                          A                       A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              8.9       HCM Level of Service                     A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.59
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             75.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   58.6%        ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 8
AM Peak Period                                                                                    9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         131     326       93     378    1204       52         137     331       96       84    616      169
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9         4.0      6.3     6.3      4.0     6.3     6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.95     1.00    0.97    0.95     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.15    1.00     1.00    0.45    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583          279    3539    1583      844    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85     0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      154     384     109      445    1416       61         161     389     113        99    725      199
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      73        0       0      29            0       0      86        0       0      85
Lane Group Flow (vph)                154     384       36     445    1416       32         161     389       27       99    725     114
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt            Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8            2              2         6               6
Actuated Green, G (s)             9.4       36.1     36.1    21.0     45.8    45.8        33.7    26.7    26.7     31.7    25.7     25.7
Effective Green, g (s)            9.4       36.1     36.1    21.0     45.8    45.8        33.7    26.7    26.7     31.7    25.7     25.7
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.09       0.33     0.33    0.19     0.42    0.42        0.31    0.24    0.24      0.29   0.23     0.23
Clearance Time (s)                5.9        5.9      5.9     4.0      5.9     5.9          4.0    6.3     6.3       4.0    6.3      6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               293        1161     520     655     1474     659         180     859     384       294    827      370
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.04       0.11             0.13    c0.40               c0.06    0.11             0.02    0.20
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.02                     0.02       c0.22            0.02      0.08            0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.53    0.33     0.07    0.68     0.96    0.05        0.89    0.45    0.07     0.34    0.88     0.31
Uniform Delay, d1                   48.2    27.8     25.4    41.4     31.2    19.1        32.1    35.4    32.1     29.6    40.6     34.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    0.60     0.49    0.26        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.7     0.8      0.3     2.2     13.2     0.1        38.5     1.7     0.4       0.7   12.6      2.1
Delay (s)                           49.9    28.6     25.7    27.1     28.4     5.0        70.7    37.2    32.5      30.3   53.2     37.0
Level of Service                       D       C        C       C        C       A            E      D       C         C      D        D
Approach Delay (s)                          33.2                      27.3                        44.5                     47.8
Approach LOS                                   C                         C                           D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             35.8       HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.84
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            110.0       Sum of lost time (s)                     15.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   81.3%        ICU Level of Service                       D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 9
AM Peak Period                                                                                   10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                   9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                            8    123        7     131     120       13        15     206      57     23      502     21
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0              5.0     5.0                        5.0                    5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                        0.95                   0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.99             1.00    0.99                       0.97                   0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00                       1.00                   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1848             1770    1836                       3421                   3511
Flt Permitted                        0.66   1.00              0.66    1.00                       0.91                   0.93
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1226    1848             1229    1836                       3134                   3284
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                         9    145        8      154    141       15         18     242     67      27     591      25
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       6       0        0      12       0          0      33      0       0       4       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   9    147        0     154     144        0          0    294       0       0     639       0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm                   Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                      6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                         2                      6
Actuated Green, G (s)                8.5     8.5               8.5    8.5                       19.1                   19.1
Effective Green, g (s)               8.5     8.5               8.5    8.5                       19.1                   19.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.23    0.23              0.23   0.23                       0.51                   0.51
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0    5.0                        5.0                    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0                        3.0                    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  277     418               278    415                        1592                   1668
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.08                     0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     c0.13                              0.09                   c0.19
v/c Ratio                           0.03    0.35              0.55   0.35                       0.18                    0.38
Uniform Delay, d1                   11.3    12.2              12.9   12.2                        5.0                     5.7
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00   1.00                       1.00                    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.0     0.5               2.4    0.5                        0.3                     0.7
Delay (s)                           11.4    12.7              15.3   12.7                        5.3                     6.3
Level of Service                       B       B                 B      B                          A                       A
Approach Delay (s)                          12.7                     14.0                        5.3                     6.3
Approach LOS                                   B                        B                          A                       A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              8.4       HCM Level of Service                     A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.44
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             37.6       Sum of lost time (s)                   10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   54.0%        ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 10
AM Peak Period                                                                               11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                               9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       30     123       9       5     119        5        5      10     5      5       16      18
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85   0.85     0.85      0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)                35    145      11        6    140        6         6     12      6      6      19       21
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              146                     155                       403    378    150    382      381     143
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  146                     155                       403    378    150    382      381     143
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                        3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       98                    100                        99     98     99     99       96      98
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1436                   1425                       519    538    896    551      536     905
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          35    155       6      146     24       46
Volume Left                           35      0       6        0      6        6
Volume Right                           0     11       0        6      6       21
cSH                                 1436   1700   1425     1700     592      663
Volume to Capacity                  0.02   0.09    0.00     0.09   0.04     0.07
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      0       0        0      3        6
Control Delay (s)                    7.6    0.0     7.5      0.0   11.3     10.8
Lane LOS                               A              A               B        B
Approach Delay (s)                   1.4            0.3            11.3     10.8
Approach LOS                                                          B        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        2.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 23.7%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 11
AM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           14    135       50       70      96      18         47    155       80      21     299     24
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.96             1.00    0.98               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1787             1770    1819               1770    1863    1583    1770    1842
Flt Permitted                        0.67   1.00              0.62    1.00               0.54    1.00    1.00    0.64    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1250    1787             1158    1819                 999   1863    1583    1197    1842
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        16    159       59       82    113       21         55    182       94      25     352      28
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      34       0        0      17       0          0       0      42       0       4       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  16    184        0       82    117        0         55    182       52      25    376        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                8.2      8.2             8.2     8.2               23.6    23.6    23.6    23.6     23.6
Effective Green, g (s)               8.2      8.2             8.2     8.2               23.6    23.6    23.6    23.6     23.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.19     0.19            0.19    0.19               0.55    0.55    0.55    0.55     0.55
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  239      342             222     349                551     1027    873     660     1016
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.10                    0.06                        0.10                   c0.20
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.07                       0.06            0.03    0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.07     0.54            0.37    0.34               0.10    0.18    0.06    0.04     0.37
Uniform Delay, d1                   14.2     15.6            15.1    14.9                4.6     4.8     4.5     4.4      5.4
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      1.6             1.0     0.6                0.4     0.4     0.1     0.1      1.0
Delay (s)                           14.3     17.2            16.1    15.5                4.9     5.2     4.6     4.5      6.4
Level of Service                       B        B               B       B                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                           17.0                    15.7                        5.0                      6.3
Approach LOS                                    B                       B                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.8       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.41
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             42.8       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   64.0%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
AM Peak Period                                                                                  13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                            5      54       5       73      58      35          5     675      63      119   2042      26
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.99             1.00    0.94               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1839             1770    1758               1770    3539    1583     1770    3532
Flt Permitted                        0.66   1.00              0.71    1.00               0.06    1.00    1.00     0.31    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1229    1839             1325    1758                 107   3539    1583       578   3532
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                         6      64       6       86      68      41          6     794      74      140   2402       31
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       4       0        0      25       0          0       0      25        0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   6      66       0       86      84       0          6    794       49     140    2433        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                         2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               12.2    12.2              12.2   12.2               69.8    69.8    69.8     81.3     81.3
Effective Green, g (s)              12.2    12.2              12.2   12.2               69.8    69.8    69.8     81.3     81.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.12    0.12              0.12   0.12               0.66    0.66    0.66      0.77    0.77
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5    5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   143     214               154    204                 71    2353    1052      533    2735
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.04                     0.05                        0.22             0.02   c0.69
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.00                     c0.06                      0.06            0.03      0.18
v/c Ratio                           0.04    0.31              0.56   0.41               0.08    0.34    0.05      0.26    0.89
Uniform Delay, d1                   41.2    42.5              43.9   43.1                6.3     7.6     6.1       3.4     8.6
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00   1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     0.8               4.3    1.4                2.3     0.4     0.1       0.3     4.8
Delay (s)                           41.3    43.4              48.2   44.4                8.6     8.0     6.2       3.6    13.4
Level of Service                       D       D                 D      D                  A       A       A         A       B
Approach Delay (s)                          43.2                     46.1                        7.8                      12.9
Approach LOS                                   D                        D                          A                         B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             14.1       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.85
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   90.9%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 13
AM Peak Period                                                                         39: Boston Ave & Martin St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         144       5       5       31    257      165
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900   1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97            1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  0.99           1.00     1.00    0.94
Flt Protected                       0.95            0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3430           1770     3539    3332
Flt Permitted                       0.95            0.47     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3430             876    3539    3332
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      169       6       6       36    302     194
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    5      0       0        0     102       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                170       0       6       36    394        0
Turn Type                                          Perm
Protected Phases                       4                       2       6
Permitted Phases                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)             5.6               14.1    14.1     14.1
Effective Green, g (s)            5.6               14.1    14.1     14.1
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.19               0.47    0.47     0.47
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               647                416     1680    1582
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.05                       0.01    c0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.26            0.01    0.02     0.25
Uniform Delay, d1                   10.3             4.1     4.1      4.6
Progression Factor                  1.00            1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.2             0.0     0.0      0.1
Delay (s)                           10.5             4.1     4.1      4.7
Level of Service                       B               A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                  10.5                     4.1      4.7
Approach LOS                           B                       A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             6.1       HCM Level of Service          A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.25
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            29.7       Sum of lost time (s)        10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  25.0%        ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 14
PM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       361     621       30        31    348       92        36     149         10     56       72    121
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5             5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    0.97                       1.00      0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.99      1.00            0.98    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3515              1770    3428                       1845      1583            1823    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.36    1.00               0.36    1.00                       0.92      1.00            0.75    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  665    3515               673    3428                       1705      1583            1395    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                    425     731       35        36    409     108          42    175         12      66      85    142
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0      21       0          0       0         8       0       0     100
Lane Group Flow (vph)             425      763        0        36    496        0          0    217          4       0    151       42
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)             59.0    52.0              39.9    36.9                        29.5     29.5            29.5     29.5
Effective Green, g (s)            59.0    52.0              39.9    36.9                        29.5     29.5            29.5     29.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.59    0.52               0.40   0.37                        0.30     0.30            0.30     0.30
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0    6.0                         5.5      5.5             5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                         3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 592    1828               301    1265                         503      467             412      467
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.13    0.22              0.00    0.14
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.29                       0.04                              c0.13     0.00            0.11     0.03
v/c Ratio                         0.72    0.42               0.12   0.39                        0.43     0.01            0.37     0.09
Uniform Delay, d1                 11.9    14.7               18.4   23.3                        28.5     24.9            27.9     25.5
Progression Factor                1.32    0.78              1.00    1.00                        1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              4.0     0.7                0.2    0.9                         2.7      0.0             2.5      0.4
Delay (s)                         19.7    12.2               18.6   24.2                        31.2     24.9            30.4     25.9
Level of Service                     B       B                  B      C                           C        C               C        C
Approach Delay (s)                        14.9                      23.8                        30.8                     28.2
Approach LOS                                 B                         C                           C                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           20.4        HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          100.0        Sum of lost time (s)                       9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 75.1%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                           2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           65    335       76       342    230       22         80    303     375      23       10      32
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0     5.0             5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.97              1.00    0.99               1.00    1.00    0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00            0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3441              1770    3493               1770    1863    1583            1800    1583
Flt Permitted                        0.57   1.00               0.38    1.00               0.73    1.00    1.00            0.57    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1063    3441                714   3493               1363    1863    1583            1060    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        76    394       89       402    271       26         94    356     441       27      12      38
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      15       0         0       6       0          0       0     329       0       0      28
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  76    468        0       402    291        0         94    356     112        0      39      10
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2                2      6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)               42.9    42.9               64.7   64.7               25.3     25.3    25.3           25.3     25.3
Effective Green, g (s)              42.9    42.9               64.7   64.7               25.3     25.3    25.3           25.3     25.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.43    0.43               0.65   0.65               0.25     0.25    0.25           0.25     0.25
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0               5.0    5.0                5.0      5.0     5.0            5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0     3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   456    1476                639   2260                345      471     400            268     400
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.14             c0.11   0.08                       c0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.07                      c0.30                      0.07             0.07           0.04     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.17    0.32               0.63   0.13               0.27     0.76    0.28           0.15     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                   17.6    18.9                8.9    6.8               30.0     34.5    30.0           29.0     28.1
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.42   0.38               1.00     1.00    1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.8     0.6                1.9    0.1                0.4      6.8     0.4            0.3      0.0
Delay (s)                           18.3    19.4                5.6    2.7               30.4     41.3    30.4           29.2     28.1
Level of Service                       B       B                  A      A                  C        D       C              C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          19.3                       4.4                        34.8                   28.7
Approach LOS                                   B                         A                           C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             21.1        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.65
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            100.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   63.9%         ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                          3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                  9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         107       21       5    1110     450       13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00     1.00    1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                       0.95     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583    1770     3539    3525
Flt Permitted                       0.95     1.00    0.45    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583      836    3539    3525
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      126       25       6    1306     529       15
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      21       0        0       3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                126        4       6    1306     541        0
Turn Type                                   Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                       4                        2       6
Permitted Phases                               4        2
Actuated Green, G (s)             7.0        7.0     27.6     27.6   27.6
Effective Green, g (s)            7.0        7.0     27.6     27.6   27.6
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.16       0.16     0.62     0.62   0.62
Clearance Time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               278        248      517     2190    2181
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.07                        c0.37   0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.00     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.45    0.02     0.01     0.60   0.25
Uniform Delay, d1                   17.1    15.9      3.3      5.1    3.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.2     0.0      0.0      0.4    0.1
Delay (s)                           18.2    15.9      3.3      5.6    3.9
Level of Service                       B       B        A        A      A
Approach Delay (s)                  17.9                       5.6    3.9
Approach LOS                           B                         A      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              6.0       HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.57
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             44.6       Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   44.9%        ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                   9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       326    1435       30       113    686       54         31        5     62      62    115     201
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97    0.91               1.00   0.91                0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    0.99               1.00     0.86           1.00    0.90
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     5070              1770    5029               3433     3049           3433    3202
Flt Permitted                     0.21    1.00               0.12    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  768    5070                221   5029               3433     3049           3433    3202
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85     0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                    384    1688       35       133    807       64         36        6     73      73     135     236
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        2       0         0       9       0          0       51      0       0     163       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             384     1721        0      133     862        0         36       28      0      73    208        0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                        Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)             48.8     38.6              39.9   33.7                2.5     32.1             6.0    32.7
Effective Green, g (s)            48.8     38.6              39.9   33.7                2.5     32.1             6.0    32.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.46     0.37              0.38   0.32               0.02     0.31            0.06    0.31
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      7.2               4.0    7.2                6.9      6.9             4.0     6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 639    1864                175   1614                 82     932             196     997
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.06    c0.34             c0.04   0.17               0.01     0.01           c0.02   c0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.22                       0.24
v/c Ratio                         0.60     0.92              0.76   0.53               0.44     0.03            0.37    0.21
Uniform Delay, d1                 18.0     31.8              25.1   29.2               50.6     25.5            47.7    26.6
Progression Factor                0.70     0.55              1.00   1.00               1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.3      7.7              17.5    1.3                3.7      0.1             1.2     0.5
Delay (s)                         14.0     25.3              42.6   30.5               54.3     25.6            48.9    27.1
Level of Service                     B        C                 D      C                  D        C               D       C
Approach Delay (s)                         23.2                     32.1                        34.6                    30.7
Approach LOS                                  C                        C                           C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           26.9        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.53
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 63.0%         ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                                            5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                      9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           76    120       39       249    184      116          86   1186      86     166     738      78
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.96              1.00    0.94                1.00    0.99            1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3409              1770    3334                1770    3503            1770    3488
Flt Permitted                        0.54   1.00               0.52    1.00                0.29    1.00            0.09    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1008    3409                967   3334                  533   3503              170   3488
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85    0.85   0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        89    141       46       293    216     136         101    1395    101      195     868       92
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      31       0         0      95       0           0       5      0        0       7       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  89    156        0       293    257        0        101    1491       0     195     953        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               18.1    18.1               31.1   31.1                51.4     49.9            52.9   52.9
Effective Green, g (s)              18.1    18.1               31.1   31.1                51.4     49.9            52.9   52.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.17    0.17               0.30   0.30                 0.49    0.48            0.50   0.50
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5             4.0    5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0             3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   174     588                355    987                 332    1665              223   1757
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.05              c0.07   0.08                 0.02   c0.43           c0.08   0.27
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.09                      c0.17                        0.13                    0.37
v/c Ratio                           0.51    0.27               0.83   0.26                 0.30    0.90            0.87   0.54
Uniform Delay, d1                   39.4    37.7               33.2   28.2                 17.9    25.2            26.2   17.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00   1.00                0.26     0.33            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               10.3     1.1               14.4    0.6                  0.4     6.5            29.3    1.2
Delay (s)                           49.8    38.8               47.6   28.8                  5.1    14.7            55.5   19.0
Level of Service                       D       D                  D      C                    A       B               E      B
Approach Delay (s)                          42.3                      37.4                         14.1                   25.2
Approach LOS                                   D                         D                            B                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             23.8        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.85
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    13.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   84.3%         ICU Level of Service                       E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 5
PM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         109     188       96       44      40      16         73   1279       31      13    953      78
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.95             1.00    0.96               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1768             1770    1782               1770    3539    1583    1770    3499
Flt Permitted                        0.71   1.00              0.25    1.00               0.19    1.00    1.00    0.12    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1330    1768               466   1782                 349   3539    1583      222   3499
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      128     221     113        52      47      19         86   1505       36      15   1121       92
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      19       0        0      15       0          0       0       4       0       5       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                128     315        0       52      51       0         86   1505       32      15   1208        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               23.6     23.6            23.6    23.6               70.4     70.4   70.4    70.4    70.4
Effective Green, g (s)              23.6     23.6            23.6    23.6               70.4     70.4   70.4    70.4    70.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.22     0.22            0.22    0.22               0.67     0.67   0.67    0.67    0.67
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   299      397             105     401                234    2373    1061     149    2346
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.18                    0.03                       c0.43                    0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.10                     0.11                       0.25            0.02    0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.43     0.79            0.50    0.13               0.37     0.63   0.03    0.10    0.51
Uniform Delay, d1                   34.9     38.4            35.5    32.5                7.6      9.9    5.8     6.1     8.7
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               0.07     0.08   0.00    0.57    0.50
Incremental Delay, d2                1.0     10.4             3.6     0.1                2.6      0.8    0.0     1.1     0.7
Delay (s)                           35.9     48.8            39.1    32.6                3.2      1.6    0.0     4.6     5.0
Level of Service                       D        D               D       C                  A        A      A       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                           45.2                    35.5                         1.7                    5.0
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                           A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.9       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.67
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   86.1%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                                       7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                             9/11/2008



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL       SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         5       5     1376     79      17     1072
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                                0%               0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85   0.85     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 6        6    1619      93     20     1261
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         TWLTL                   TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                     2                       2
Upstream signal (ft)                                 1227                     875
pX, platoon unblocked               0.67     0.58                   0.58
vC, conflicting volume              2289     809                    1712
vC1, stage 1 conf vol               1619
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                671
vCu, unblocked vol                   832        0                    795
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                       98      99                      96
cM capacity (veh/h)                  276     634                     480
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2   SB 3
Volume Total                        6           6     809     809     93       20       631    631
Volume Left                         6           0       0       0      0       20         0      0
Volume Right                        0           6       0       0     93        0         0      0
cSH                               276         634    1700    1700   1700      480      1700   1700
Volume to Capacity               0.02        0.01    0.48    0.48   0.05     0.04      0.37   0.37
Queue Length 95th (ft)              2           1       0       0      0        3         0      0
Control Delay (s)                18.3        10.7     0.0     0.0    0.0     12.8       0.0    0.0
Lane LOS                            C           B                               B
Approach Delay (s)               14.5                  0.0                    0.2
Approach LOS                        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   48.0%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                                      8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                   9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           11    581       29       46    148        5         32   1300      16       5   1117      70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0              5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0            5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95           1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.99             1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1850             1770    1853               1770    3533           1770    3508
Flt Permitted                        0.62   1.00              0.09    1.00               0.08    1.00           0.08    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1148    1850               172   1853                 144   3533             144   3508
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        13    684       34       54    174        6         38   1529      19       6   1314       82
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       2       0        0       1       0          0       1      0       0       4       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  13    716        0       54    179        0         38   1547       0       6   1392        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm                   Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                      6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2                      6
Actuated Green, G (s)               43.3     43.3            43.3    43.3               51.7     51.7          51.7    51.7
Effective Green, g (s)              43.3     43.3            43.3    43.3               51.7     51.7          51.7    51.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.41     0.41            0.41    0.41               0.49     0.49          0.49    0.49
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0             5.0     5.0                5.0      5.0           5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0           3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   473      763              71     764                 71    1740             71    1727
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.39                    0.10                       c0.44                  0.40
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.31                       0.26                   0.04
v/c Ratio                           0.03     0.94            0.76    0.23               0.54     0.89          0.08    0.81
Uniform Delay, d1                   18.3     29.6            26.4    20.1               18.4     24.1          14.1    22.4
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               0.42     0.47          0.55    0.60
Incremental Delay, d2                0.0     19.0            37.3     0.2               24.4      6.8           2.1     3.7
Delay (s)                           18.4     48.6            63.7    20.2               32.0     18.1           9.9    17.1
Level of Service                       B        D               E       C                  C        B             A       B
Approach Delay (s)                           48.0                    30.3                        18.4                  17.1
Approach LOS                                    D                       C                           B                     B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             24.1       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.91
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   83.0%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 8
PM Peak Period                                                                                    9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         154     978       93     146     553       76         287     638     268      120     552     211
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9         4.0      6.3     6.3      4.0     6.3     6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.95     1.00    0.97    0.95     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.25    1.00     1.00    0.37    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583          475    3539    1583      683    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85     0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      181    1151     109      172     651       89         338     751     315      141     649     248
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      67        0       0      59            0       0     142        0       0     197
Lane Group Flow (vph)                181    1151       42     172     651       30         338     751     173      141     649       51
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt            Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8            2              2         6               6
Actuated Green, G (s)               10.2     40.1    40.1      7.0   35.0     35.0        31.7    31.7    31.7     24.0     21.7    21.7
Effective Green, g (s)              10.2     40.1    40.1      7.0   35.0     35.0        31.7    31.7    31.7     24.0     21.7    21.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.10     0.38    0.38     0.07   0.33     0.33        0.30    0.30    0.30      0.23    0.21    0.21
Clearance Time (s)                   5.9      5.9     5.9      4.0    5.9      5.9          4.0    6.3     6.3       4.0     6.3     6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   333    1352      605     229    1180     528         341     1068    478       218     731     327
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.05    c0.33            c0.05   0.18                c0.15    0.21             0.04    c0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.03                     0.02       c0.15            0.11      0.11            0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.54     0.85    0.07     0.75   0.55     0.06        0.99    0.70    0.36     0.65     0.89    0.16
Uniform Delay, d1                   45.2     29.7    20.6     48.1   28.6     23.8        33.2    32.5    28.7     38.3     40.5    34.1
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00     0.62   0.78     1.37        1.00    1.00    1.00     0.54     0.57    0.75
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8      6.9     0.2     11.9    1.7      0.2        46.2     3.9     2.1       3.7     9.3     0.6
Delay (s)                           47.0     36.6    20.8     41.9   24.0     32.7        79.4    36.4    30.8      24.3    32.4    26.3
Level of Service                       D        D       C        D      C        C            E      D       C         C       C       C
Approach Delay (s)                           36.7                    28.2                         45.5                      29.8
Approach LOS                                    D                       C                            D                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             36.2       HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.83
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                     13.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   80.0%        ICU Level of Service                       D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 9
PM Peak Period                                                                                    10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                   9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           10    481       10       24    119       23         5     462     244     23     495       5
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0              5.0     5.0                        5.0                    5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                        0.95                   0.95
Frt                                  1.00    1.00             1.00    0.98                       0.95                   1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00                       1.00                   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1857             1770    1818                       3356                   3526
Flt Permitted                        0.65   1.00              0.27    1.00                       0.95                   0.89
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1214    1857               502   1818                       3188                   3161
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        12    566       12       28    140       27          6     544    287      27     582       6
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       2       0        0      14       0          0     120      0       0       1       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  12    576        0       28    153        0          0    717       0       0    614        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm                   Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                      6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2                      6
Actuated Green, G (s)               17.1     17.1            17.1    17.1                       14.9                   14.9
Effective Green, g (s)              17.1     17.1            17.1    17.1                       14.9                   14.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.41     0.41            0.41    0.41                       0.35                   0.35
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0             5.0     5.0                        5.0                    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                        3.0                    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   494      756             204     740                       1131                   1121
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.31                    0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.06                               c0.22                  0.19
v/c Ratio                           0.02     0.76            0.14    0.21                        0.63                  0.55
Uniform Delay, d1                    7.5     10.7             7.8     8.1                        11.3                  10.9
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00                        1.00                  1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.0      4.6             0.3     0.1                         1.2                   0.6
Delay (s)                            7.5     15.3             8.1     8.2                        12.5                  11.4
Level of Service                       A        B               A       A                           B                     B
Approach Delay (s)                           15.1                     8.2                        12.5                  11.4
Approach LOS                                    B                       A                           B                     B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             12.5       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.70
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             42.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   65.1%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 10
PM Peak Period                                                                               11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                               9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       16     481       7       5     119        5        5      10     5      5        5      18
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85   0.85     0.85      0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)                19    566       8        6    140        6         6     12      6      6       6       21
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              146                     574                       784    765    570    770      766     143
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  146                     574                       784    765    570    770      766     143
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                     2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       99                     99                        98     96     99     98       98      98
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1436                    999                       295    327    521    301      326     905
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          19    574       6      146     24       33
Volume Left                           19      0       6        0      6        6
Volume Right                           0      8       0        6      6       21
cSH                                 1436   1700     999    1700     350      540
Volume to Capacity                  0.01   0.34    0.01     0.09   0.07     0.06
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1      0       0        0      5        5
Control Delay (s)                    7.5    0.0     8.6      0.0   16.0     12.1
Lane LOS                               A              A               C        B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.2            0.3            16.0     12.1
Approach LOS                                                          C        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        1.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 35.7%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 11
PM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           43    148       26       63    115       18         59    426     348       10    178      19
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98             1.00    0.98               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1820             1770    1825               1770    1863    1583    1770    1836
Flt Permitted                        0.66   1.00              0.63    1.00               0.61    1.00    1.00    0.44    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1226    1820             1172    1825               1145    1863    1583      821   1836
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        51    174       31       74    135       21         69    501     409       12     209      22
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      16       0        0      15       0          0       0     183       0       6       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  51    189        0       74    141        0         69    501     226       12    225        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                8.2      8.2             8.2     8.2               23.6     23.6   23.6    23.6    23.6
Effective Green, g (s)               8.2      8.2             8.2     8.2               23.6     23.6   23.6    23.6    23.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.19     0.19            0.19    0.19               0.55     0.55   0.55    0.55    0.55
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  235      349             225     350                631     1027    873     453     1012
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.10                    0.08                       c0.27                    0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.04                     0.06                       0.06            0.14    0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.22     0.54            0.33    0.40               0.11     0.49   0.26    0.03    0.22
Uniform Delay, d1                   14.6     15.6            14.9    15.2                4.6      5.9    5.0     4.4     4.9
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5      1.7             0.9     0.8                0.3      1.7    0.7     0.1     0.5
Delay (s)                           15.1     17.3            15.8    15.9                4.9      7.5    5.7     4.5     5.4
Level of Service                       B        B               B       B                  A        A      A       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                           16.9                    15.9                         6.6                    5.4
Approach LOS                                    B                       B                           A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.2       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.50
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             42.8       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   68.5%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
PM Peak Period                                                                                   13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           13      98      30       50      58      78         17   1864       51       54   1656      16
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.96             1.00    0.91               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1798             1770    1702               1770    3539    1583     1770    3534
Flt Permitted                        0.46   1.00              0.49    1.00               0.08    1.00    1.00     0.05    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     849   1798               914   1702                 152   3539    1583        89   3534
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        15    115       35       59      68      92         20   2193       60       64   1948       19
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      11       0        0      48       0          0       0      13        0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  15    139        0       59    112        0         20   2193       47       64   1967        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               14.2     14.2            14.2    14.2               79.8     79.8   79.8     89.3     89.3
Effective Green, g (s)              14.2     14.2            14.2    14.2               79.8     79.8   79.8     89.3     89.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.12     0.12            0.12    0.12               0.69     0.69   0.69      0.78    0.78
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   105      222             113     210                105    2456    1098      150    2744
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.08                    0.07                       c0.62             0.02   c0.56
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02                     0.06                       0.13            0.03      0.31
v/c Ratio                           0.14     0.63            0.52    0.53               0.19     0.89   0.04      0.43    0.72
Uniform Delay, d1                   45.0     47.9            47.2    47.3                6.2     14.2    5.6      23.1     6.5
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.6      5.5             4.3     2.6                4.0      5.5    0.1       1.9     1.6
Delay (s)                           45.6     53.4            51.5    49.9               10.2     19.6    5.6      25.0     8.1
Level of Service                       D        D               D       D                  B        B      A         C       A
Approach Delay (s)                           52.7                    50.3                        19.2                      8.6
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                           B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             17.3       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.87
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            115.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   17.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   79.4%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 13
PM Peak Period                                                                         39: Boston Ave & Martin St.
2017 Mid Term Background Traffic Volumes                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         597       5       5     445     274      174
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900   1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97            1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00           1.00     1.00    0.94
Flt Protected                       0.95            0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3439           1770     3539    3333
Flt Permitted                       0.95            0.46     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3439             850    3539    3333
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      702       6       6     524     322     205
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    1      0       0        0     139       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                707       0       6     524     388        0
Turn Type                                          Perm
Protected Phases                       4                       2       6
Permitted Phases                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)            12.4               10.6     10.6   10.6
Effective Green, g (s)           12.4               10.6     10.6   10.6
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.38               0.32     0.32   0.32
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0      5.0    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              1292                 273    1137    1071
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.21                       c0.15   0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.55            0.02     0.46   0.36
Uniform Delay, d1                    8.1             7.7      8.9    8.6
Progression Factor                  1.00            1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5             0.0      0.3    0.2
Delay (s)                            8.6             7.7      9.2    8.8
Level of Service                       A               A        A      A
Approach Delay (s)                   8.6                      9.2    8.8
Approach LOS                           A                        A      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             8.8       HCM Level of Service          A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.51
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            33.0       Sum of lost time (s)        10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  38.7%        ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 14
AM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                          9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        74     252       30        44    599       36        23       29         5     86      100     237
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5             5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.98              1.00    0.99                       1.00      0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.98      1.00            0.98    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3483              1770    3509                       1822      1583            1821    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.28    1.00               0.55    1.00                       0.83      1.00            0.83    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  526    3483              1028    3509                       1552      1583            1540    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                     87     296       35        52    705       42         27      34         6     101     118     279
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0       12       0         0       6       0          0       0         4       0       0     171
Lane Group Flow (vph)               87     319        0        52    741        0          0      61         2       0     219     108
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)             33.0    29.0              31.0     28.0                      22.5      22.5             22.5    22.5
Effective Green, g (s)            33.0    29.0              31.0     28.0                      22.5      22.5             22.5    22.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.47    0.41               0.44    0.40                      0.32      0.32             0.32    0.32
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0     6.0                       5.5       5.5              5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                       3.0       3.0              3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 319    1443               487    1404                        499       509              495     509
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.02    0.09              0.00    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.11                       0.04                              0.04      0.00            c0.14    0.07
v/c Ratio                         0.27    0.22               0.11    0.53                      0.12      0.00             0.44    0.21
Uniform Delay, d1                 10.7    13.2               11.2    16.0                      16.8      16.1             18.8    17.3
Progression Factor                0.52    0.56              1.00     1.00                      1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.5     0.3                0.1     1.4                       0.5       0.0              2.9     0.9
Delay (s)                          6.0     7.7               11.3    17.4                      17.3      16.1             21.6    18.2
Level of Service                     A       A                  B       B                         B         B                C       B
Approach Delay (s)                         7.4                       17.0                      17.2                       19.7
Approach LOS                                 A                          B                         B                          B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           15.5        HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     15.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 55.5%         ICU Level of Service                        B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                            2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                           9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           19    164       30       438     488       14         70      58    152      13       10      48
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0      5.0                5.0     5.0     5.0             5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00    0.95                1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00     1.00               1.00    1.00    0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00            0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3458              1770     3525               1770    1863    1583            1812    1583
Flt Permitted                        0.43   1.00               0.61     1.00               0.74    1.00    1.00            0.82    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     800   3458              1135     3525               1378    1863    1583            1533    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85      0.85     0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        22    193       35       515     574       16         82      68    179       15      12      56
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      19       0          0       2       0          0       0     154       0       0      48
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  22    209        0       515     588        0         82      68      25       0      27       8
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                        Perm            Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                               4                   3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                           8                          2               2      6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)               25.3    25.3               50.3    50.3                 9.7    9.7      9.7            9.7      9.7
Effective Green, g (s)              25.3    25.3               50.3    50.3                 9.7    9.7      9.7            9.7      9.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.36    0.36               0.72    0.72                0.14   0.14     0.14           0.14     0.14
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0               5.0     5.0                 5.0    5.0      5.0            5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0                 3.0    3.0      3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   289    1250                997    2533                191    258      219            212      219
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.06             c0.15    0.17                       0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.03                      c0.22                       c0.06            0.02           0.02     0.00
v/c Ratio                           0.08    0.17               0.52    0.23                0.43   0.26     0.11           0.13     0.04
Uniform Delay, d1                   14.7    15.2                5.1     3.3                27.6   27.0     26.4           26.4     26.1
Progression Factor                  0.51    0.43               0.55    0.31                1.00   1.00     1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5     0.3                0.4     0.2                 1.6    0.5      0.2            0.3      0.1
Delay (s)                            8.0     6.8                 3.2    1.2                29.2   27.5     26.6           26.7     26.2
Level of Service                       A       A                   A      A                   C      C        C              C        C
Approach Delay (s)                           7.0                        2.1                       27.4                    26.3
Approach LOS                                   A                          A                          C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              8.7         HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0         Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   52.8%          ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                          3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                       9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           90       5       5     196     432       10
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00     1.00    1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                       0.95     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583    1770     3539    3527
Flt Permitted                       0.95     1.00    0.46    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583      856    3539    3527
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      106        6       6     231     508       12
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       5       0        0       1       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                106        1       6     231     519        0
Turn Type                                   Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                       4                        2       6
Permitted Phases                               4        2
Actuated Green, G (s)             7.6        7.6     43.2    43.2     43.2
Effective Green, g (s)            7.6        7.6     43.2    43.2     43.2
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.12       0.12     0.71    0.71     0.71
Clearance Time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               221        198      608     2515    2506
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.06                         0.07   c0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.00     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.48    0.00     0.01    0.09     0.21
Uniform Delay, d1                   24.8    23.3      2.6     2.7      3.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.6     0.0      0.0     0.1      0.2
Delay (s)                           26.4    23.3      2.6     2.8      3.2
Level of Service                       C       C        A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                  26.2                      2.8      3.2
Approach LOS                           C                        A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              6.0       HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.25
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             60.8       Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   25.6%        ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         5     586       18        44   1421       43         10        5     16       8       5    255
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                0.97     0.91              1.00    0.91                0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00               1.00     0.89           1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95     1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     5063              1770    5063               3433     3136           3433    3019
Flt Permitted                    0.10     1.00               0.37    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 360     5063               690    5063               3433     3136           3433    3019
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85     0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      6     689       21        52   1672       51         12        6     19       9       6     300
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0       3       0          0       13      0       0     121       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                6     707        0        52   1720        0         12       12      0       9     185       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                        Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)            41.1      41.1             49.7     46.5                0.8    32.1            3.3     31.7
Effective Green, g (s)           41.1      41.1             49.7     46.5                0.8    32.1            3.3     31.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.39     0.39              0.47    0.44               0.01    0.31           0.03     0.30
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9     6.9            4.0      6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                170     1982               392    2242                  26    959            108      911
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.00     c0.14             0.01    c0.34              c0.00    0.00           0.00    c0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.01                        0.05
v/c Ratio                        0.04      0.36              0.13    0.77               0.46    0.01           0.08     0.20
Uniform Delay, d1                23.3      22.6              15.8    24.7               51.9    25.4           49.4     27.3
Progression Factor               0.59      0.62             1.00     1.00               1.00    1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1      0.5               0.2     2.6               12.4     0.0            0.3      0.5
Delay (s)                         13.9     14.6              15.9    27.3               64.3    25.4           49.7     27.8
Level of Service                     B        B                 B       C                  E       C              D        C
Approach Delay (s)                         14.6                      26.9                       38.0                    28.4
Approach LOS                                  B                         C                          D                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           24.1        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.52
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    21.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 55.3%         ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                                            5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                           9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           39      76      64       211    357       67          79    459      95       90    813      90
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.93              1.00    0.98                1.00    0.97            1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3296              1770    3455                1770    3448            1770    3486
Flt Permitted                        0.47   1.00               0.52    1.00                0.19    1.00            0.40    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     874   3296                977   3455                  355   3448              753   3486
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85    0.85   0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        46      89      75       248    420       79          93    540    112      106     956     106
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      57       0         0      22       0           0      24      0        0      12       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  46    107        0       248    477        0          93    628       0     106    1050        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               17.0    17.0               26.0   26.0                25.0     25.0           26.5     25.0
Effective Green, g (s)              17.0    17.0               26.0   26.0                25.0     25.0           26.5     25.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24    0.24               0.37   0.37                 0.36    0.36            0.38    0.36
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   212     800                420   1283                 208    1231             343    1245
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.03              c0.04   0.14                 0.03   c0.18            0.02   c0.30
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.05                      c0.18                        0.13                    0.10
v/c Ratio                           0.22    0.13               0.59   0.37                 0.45    0.51            0.31    0.84
Uniform Delay, d1                   21.2    20.7               17.3   16.0                 17.4    17.7            15.7    20.7
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.61   0.59                0.69     0.77            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                2.3     0.3                2.2    0.8                  1.5     1.5             0.5     7.1
Delay (s)                           23.5    21.1               12.8   10.3                 13.5    15.0            16.2    27.8
Level of Service                       C       C                  B      B                    B       B               B       C
Approach Delay (s)                          21.6                      11.1                         14.9                    26.7
Approach LOS                                   C                         B                            B                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             19.2        HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.71
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   68.8%         ICU Level of Service                      C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 5
AM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                         9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           64      62      60       49      38      10         60    569       26      19     999     55
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.93             1.00    0.97               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1725             1770    1804               1770    3539    1583    1770    3511
Flt Permitted                        0.72   1.00              0.67    1.00               0.20    1.00    1.00    0.40    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1341    1725             1239    1804                 371   3539    1583      740   3511
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        75      73      71       58      45      12         71     669      31      22   1175       65
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      52       0        0      10       0          0       0       9       0       3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  75      92       0       58      47       0         71    669       22      22   1237        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                8.9     8.9              8.9     8.9               50.1    50.1    50.1    50.1     50.1
Effective Green, g (s)               8.9     8.9              8.9     8.9               50.1    50.1    50.1    50.1     50.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13    0.13             0.13    0.13               0.72    0.72    0.72    0.72     0.72
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0              3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  170     219              158     229                266     2533    1133    530     2513
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.05                     0.03                        0.19                   c0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                  c0.06                        0.05                       0.19            0.01    0.03
v/c Ratio                        0.44       0.42             0.37    0.20               0.27    0.26    0.02    0.04     0.49
Uniform Delay, d1                28.3       28.2             28.0    27.4                3.5     3.5     2.9     2.9      4.4
Progression Factor               1.00       1.00             1.00    1.00               0.74    0.76    0.74    0.28     0.18
Incremental Delay, d2             1.8        1.3              1.4     0.4                2.4     0.2     0.0     0.1      0.5
Delay (s)                        30.1       29.5             29.4    27.8                4.9     2.9     2.2     0.9      1.3
Level of Service                    C          C                C       C                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          29.7                     28.6                        3.0                      1.3
Approach LOS                                   C                        C                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              5.8       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.48
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   72.7%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                                       7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                  9/11/2008



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL       SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         5       5      627     14       5     1072
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                                0%               0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85   0.85     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 6        6     738      16      6     1261
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         TWLTL                   TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                     2                       2
Upstream signal (ft)                                 1227                     875
pX, platoon unblocked               0.87
vC, conflicting volume              1380     369                     754
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                738
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                642
vCu, unblocked vol                  1144     369                     754
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                       98      99                      99
cM capacity (veh/h)                  378     628                     852
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2   SB 3
Volume Total                        6           6     369     369     16        6       631    631
Volume Left                         6           0       0       0      0        6         0      0
Volume Right                        0           6       0       0     16        0         0      0
cSH                               378         628    1700    1700   1700      852      1700   1700
Volume to Capacity               0.02        0.01    0.22    0.22   0.01     0.01      0.37   0.37
Queue Length 95th (ft)              1           1       0       0      0        1         0      0
Control Delay (s)                14.7        10.8     0.0     0.0    0.0      9.3       0.0    0.0
Lane LOS                            B           B                               A
Approach Delay (s)               12.7                  0.0                    0.0
Approach LOS                        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   39.6%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                                       8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                         9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           17    152       24       34    146        5          46    694       5       5   1121     114
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0                 5.0     5.0            5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    0.99                1.00    1.00           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00     1.00     0.95   1.00                 0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1863    1583     1770    1853                1770    3535           1770    3490
Flt Permitted                        0.57   1.00     1.00     0.57   1.00                 0.12    1.00           0.33    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1060    1863    1583     1055    1853                 216    3535             607   3490
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85    0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        20    179       28       40    172        6          54     816      6       6   1319      134
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      23        0       2       0           0       1      0       0       9       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  20    179        5       40    176        0          54    821       0       6   1444        0
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     Perm                       pm+pt                   Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                    5      2                      6
Permitted Phases                       4                4       8                            2                      6
Actuated Green, G (s)               11.8     11.8    11.8    11.8    11.8                48.2     48.2          40.8     40.8
Effective Green, g (s)              11.8     11.8    11.8    11.8    11.8                48.2     48.2          40.8     40.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.17     0.17    0.17    0.17    0.17                 0.69    0.69          0.58     0.58
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0                  5.0     5.0            5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0                  3.0     3.0           3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   179      314     267     178     312                 202    2434            354    2034
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.10                    0.10                 0.01   c0.23                  c0.41
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02             0.00    0.04                         0.17                  0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.11     0.57    0.02    0.22    0.57                 0.27    0.34          0.02     0.71
Uniform Delay, d1                   24.7     26.8    24.3    25.1    26.7                 12.5     4.4           6.2     10.4
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00                1.00     1.00          0.56     0.51
Incremental Delay, d2                0.3      2.5     0.0     0.6     2.3                  0.7     0.4           0.1      2.0
Delay (s)                           24.9     29.3    24.3    25.8    29.1                 13.2     4.8           3.5      7.2
Level of Service                       C        C       C       C       C                    B       A             A        A
Approach Delay (s)                           28.3                    28.5                          5.3                    7.2
Approach LOS                                    C                       C                            A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.0       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.62
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   62.1%        ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 8
AM Peak Period                                                                                    9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                            9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         131     326       93     378    1204       58         137     341       96       84    622      171
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9         4.0      6.3     6.3      4.0     6.3     6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.95     1.00    0.97    0.95     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.17    1.00     1.00    0.39    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583          324    3539    1583      722    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85     0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      154     384     109      445    1416       68         161     401     113        99    732      201
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      71        0       0      35            0       0      88        0       0      89
Lane Group Flow (vph)                154     384       38     445    1416       33         161     401       25       99    732     112
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt            Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8            2              2         6               6
Actuated Green, G (s)             8.1       36.4     36.4    17.9     44.3    44.3        29.0    23.0    23.0     32.0     24.5    24.5
Effective Green, g (s)            8.1       36.4     36.4    17.9     44.3    44.3        29.0    23.0    23.0     32.0     24.5    24.5
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.08       0.35     0.35    0.17     0.42    0.42        0.28    0.22    0.22      0.30    0.23    0.23
Clearance Time (s)                5.9        5.9      5.9     4.0      5.9     5.9          4.0    6.3     6.3       4.0     6.3     6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               265        1227     549     585     1493     668         172     775     347       295     826     369
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.04       0.11             0.13    c0.40               c0.05    0.11             0.02    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.02                     0.02        0.20            0.02      0.08            0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.58    0.31     0.07    0.76     0.95    0.05        0.94    0.52    0.07     0.34     0.89    0.30
Uniform Delay, d1                   46.8    25.1     23.0    41.5     29.2    17.9        34.3    36.1    32.5     27.1     38.9    33.2
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    0.85     0.53    0.18        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                3.2     0.7      0.2     4.7     11.9     0.1        49.8     2.5     0.4       0.7    13.4     2.1
Delay (s)                           50.0    25.8     23.2    39.9     27.4     3.4        84.1    38.6    32.9      27.8    52.3    35.3
Level of Service                       D       C        C       D        C       A            F      D       C         C       D       D
Approach Delay (s)                          31.1                      29.5                        48.5                      46.7
Approach LOS                                   C                         C                           D                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             36.9       HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.83
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                     15.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   81.5%        ICU Level of Service                       D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 9
AM Peak Period                                                                                   10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           10    137       10     139     128       21        15     206      73     34     502      21
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0              5.0     5.0                        5.0                    5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                        0.95                   0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.99             1.00    0.98                       0.96                   0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00                       1.00                   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1843             1770    1823                       3398                   3508
Flt Permitted                        0.65   1.00              0.65    1.00                       0.92                   0.92
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1204    1843             1207    1823                       3122                   3233
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        12    161       12     164     151       25         18    242      86      40     591      25
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       7       0        0      16       0          0      40      0       0       5       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  12    166        0     164     160        0          0    306       0       0    651        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm                   Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                      6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                         2                      6
Actuated Green, G (s)                9.3     9.3               9.3    9.3                       22.2                   22.2
Effective Green, g (s)               9.3     9.3               9.3    9.3                       22.2                   22.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.22    0.22              0.22   0.22                       0.53                   0.53
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0    5.0                        5.0                    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0                        3.0                    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  270     413               270    409                        1670                   1729
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.09                     0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     c0.14                              0.10                   c0.20
v/c Ratio                           0.04    0.40              0.61   0.39                       0.18                    0.38
Uniform Delay, d1                   12.6    13.7              14.5   13.7                        5.0                     5.6
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00   1.00                       1.00                    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     0.6               3.8    0.6                        0.2                     0.6
Delay (s)                           12.7    14.4              18.3   14.3                        5.2                     6.2
Level of Service                       B       B                 B      B                          A                       A
Approach Delay (s)                          14.3                     16.2                        5.2                     6.2
Approach LOS                                   B                        B                          A                       A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.2       HCM Level of Service                     A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.44
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             41.5       Sum of lost time (s)                   10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   56.2%        ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 10
AM Peak Period                                                                               11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       30     154       9       5     129        5        5      10     5      5       16      18
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85   0.85     0.85      0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)                35    181      11        6    152        6         6     12      6      6      19       21
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              158                     192                       451    426    186    430      429     155
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  158                     192                       451    426    186    430      429     155
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                        3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       98                    100                        99     98     99     99       96      98
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1422                   1382                       481    505    856    511      504     891
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          35    192       6      158     24       46
Volume Left                           35      0       6        0      6        6
Volume Right                           0     11       0        6      6       21
cSH                                 1422   1700   1382     1700     555      631
Volume to Capacity                  0.02   0.11    0.00     0.09   0.04     0.07
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      0       0        0      3        6
Control Delay (s)                    7.6    0.0     7.6      0.0   11.8     11.1
Lane LOS                               A              A               B        B
Approach Delay (s)                   1.2            0.3            11.8     11.1
Approach LOS                                                          B        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        2.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 25.3%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 11
AM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                          9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           14    165       50       76    100       18         47    155     115       21    299       24
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.97             1.00    0.98               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1798             1770    1821               1770    1863    1583    1770    1842
Flt Permitted                        0.67   1.00              0.60    1.00               0.53    1.00    1.00    0.64    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1245    1798             1116    1821                 986   1863    1583    1197    1842
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        16    194       59       89    118       21         55    182     135       25     352       28
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      27       0        0      15       0          0       0      66       0       5        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  16    226        0       89    124        0         55    182       69      25    375         0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                        6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               10.7     10.7            10.7    10.7               23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0     23.0
Effective Green, g (s)              10.7     10.7            10.7    10.7               23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0     23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24     0.24            0.24    0.24               0.51    0.51    0.51    0.51     0.51
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5      5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   298      430             267     436                507     959     815     616      948
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.13                    0.07                       0.10                    c0.20
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.08                       0.06            0.04    0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.05     0.53            0.33    0.28               0.11    0.19    0.09    0.04     0.40
Uniform Delay, d1                   13.1     14.8            14.1    13.9                5.6     5.8     5.5     5.4      6.6
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      1.2             0.7     0.4                0.4     0.4     0.2     0.1      1.2
Delay (s)                           13.2     16.0            14.8    14.2                6.0     6.3     5.7     5.5      7.9
Level of Service                       B        B               B       B                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                           15.8                    14.5                        6.0                      7.7
Approach LOS                                    B                       B                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.1       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.44
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             44.7       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   65.6%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
AM Peak Period                                                                                  13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                                          9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                            5      54       5       77      58      35          5     675      88      124   2042      26
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.99             1.00    0.94               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1839             1770    1758               1770    3539    1583     1770    3532
Flt Permitted                        0.66   1.00              0.71    1.00               0.06    1.00    1.00     0.31    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1233    1839             1325    1758                 108   3539    1583       576   3532
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                         6      64       6       91      68      41          6     794     104      146   2402       31
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       4       0        0      25       0          0       0      35        0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   6      66       0       91      84       0          6    794       69     146    2433        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                         2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               12.6    12.6              12.6   12.6               69.3    69.3    69.3     80.9     80.9
Effective Green, g (s)              12.6    12.6              12.6   12.6               69.3    69.3    69.3     80.9     80.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.12    0.12              0.12   0.12               0.66    0.66    0.66      0.77    0.77
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5    5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   148     221               159    211                 71    2336    1045      530    2721
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.04                     0.05                        0.22             0.02   c0.69
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.00                     c0.07                      0.06            0.04      0.19
v/c Ratio                           0.04    0.30              0.57   0.40               0.08    0.34    0.07      0.28    0.89
Uniform Delay, d1                   40.9    42.2              43.7   42.7                6.4     7.8     6.3       3.5     8.9
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00   1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     0.8               4.9    1.2                2.3     0.4     0.1       0.3     5.0
Delay (s)                           41.0    42.9              48.6   43.9                8.8     8.2     6.5       3.8    13.9
Level of Service                       D       D                 D      D                  A       A       A         A       B
Approach Delay (s)                          42.8                     46.0                        8.0                      13.4
Approach LOS                                   D                        D                          A                         B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             14.4       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.85
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   91.1%        ICU Level of Service                      F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 13
AM Peak Period                                                                         39: Boston Ave & Martin St.
Mid Term 2017 Total Traffic Volumes                                                                         9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         152       5      10       31    257      175
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900   1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97            1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00           1.00     1.00    0.94
Flt Protected                       0.95            0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3430           1770     3539    3324
Flt Permitted                       0.95            0.47     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3430             866    3539    3324
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      179       6      12       36    302     206
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    3      0       0        0     117       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                182       0      12       36    391        0
Turn Type                                          Perm
Protected Phases                       4                       2       6
Permitted Phases                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)             7.1               13.1    13.1     13.1
Effective Green, g (s)            7.1               13.1    13.1     13.1
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.24               0.43    0.43     0.43
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               806                376     1535    1442
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.05                       0.01    c0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.23            0.03    0.02     0.27
Uniform Delay, d1                    9.3             4.9     4.9      5.5
Progression Factor                  1.00            1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1             0.0     0.0      0.1
Delay (s)                            9.5             4.9     4.9      5.6
Level of Service                       A               A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                   9.5                     4.9      5.6
Approach LOS                           A                       A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             6.5       HCM Level of Service          A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.26
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            30.2       Sum of lost time (s)        10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  25.5%        ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 14
PM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       361     631       30        31    363       92        36     149         10     56       72    121
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5             5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    0.97                       1.00      0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.99      1.00            0.98    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3515              1770    3432                       1845      1583            1823    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.34    1.00               0.36    1.00                       0.92      1.00            0.75    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  642    3515               666    3432                       1705      1583            1395    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                    425     742       35        36    427     108          42    175         12      66      85    142
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0      20       0          0       0         8       0       0     100
Lane Group Flow (vph)             425      774        0        36    515        0          0    217          4       0    151       42
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)             59.0    52.0              39.7    36.7                        29.5     29.5            29.5     29.5
Effective Green, g (s)            59.0    52.0              39.7    36.7                        29.5     29.5            29.5     29.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.59    0.52               0.40   0.37                        0.30     0.30            0.30     0.30
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0    6.0                         5.5      5.5             5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                         3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 585    1828               298    1260                         503      467             412      467
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.13    0.22              0.00    0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.30                       0.04                              c0.13     0.00            0.11     0.03
v/c Ratio                         0.73    0.42               0.12   0.41                        0.43     0.01            0.37     0.09
Uniform Delay, d1                 12.0    14.8               18.6   23.6                        28.5     24.9            27.9     25.5
Progression Factor                1.41    0.82              1.00    1.00                        1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              3.9     0.6                0.2    1.0                         2.7      0.0             2.5      0.4
Delay (s)                         20.9    12.7               18.7   24.6                        31.2     24.9            30.4     25.9
Level of Service                     C       B                  B      C                           C        C               C        C
Approach Delay (s)                        15.6                      24.2                        30.8                     28.2
Approach LOS                                 B                         C                           C                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           20.9        HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          100.0        Sum of lost time (s)                       9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 75.1%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                           2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           65    335       76       357    230       22         80    303     585      23       10      32
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0     5.0             5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                1.00    1.00    1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.97              1.00    0.99               1.00    1.00    0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00            0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3441              1770    3493               1770    1863    1583            1800    1583
Flt Permitted                        0.57   1.00               0.37    1.00               0.73    1.00    1.00            0.61    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1063    3441                691   3493               1363    1863    1583            1141    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        76    394       89       420    271       26         94    356     688       27      12      38
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      15       0         0       6       0          0       0     469       0       0      28
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  76    468        0       420    291        0         94    356     219        0      39      10
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm            Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2                2      6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)               39.8    39.8               62.9   62.9               27.1     27.1    27.1           27.1     27.1
Effective Green, g (s)              39.8    39.8               62.9   62.9               27.1     27.1    27.1           27.1     27.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.40    0.40               0.63   0.63               0.27     0.27    0.27           0.27     0.27
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0               5.0    5.0                5.0      5.0     5.0            5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0     3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   423    1370                630   2197                369      505     429            309     429
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.14             c0.12   0.08                       c0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.07                      c0.30                      0.07             0.14           0.03     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.18    0.34               0.67   0.13               0.25     0.70    0.51           0.13     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                   19.5    21.0               10.0    7.5               28.5     32.8    30.8           27.5     26.7
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.43   0.39               1.00     1.00    1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.9     0.7                2.6    0.1                0.4      4.4     1.0            0.2      0.0
Delay (s)                           20.4    21.7                6.9    3.0               28.9     37.3    31.8           27.7     26.8
Level of Service                       C       C                  A      A                  C        D       C              C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          21.5                       5.3                        33.3                   27.2
Approach LOS                                   C                         A                           C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             22.4        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.67
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            100.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   64.7%         ICU Level of Service                      C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                          3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                  9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         107       21       5    1120     465       13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00     1.00    1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                       0.95     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583    1770     3539    3525
Flt Permitted                       0.95     1.00    0.44    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583      822    3539    3525
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      126       25       6    1318     547       15
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      22       0        0       2       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                126        3       6    1318     560        0
Turn Type                                   Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                       4                        2       6
Permitted Phases                               4        2
Actuated Green, G (s)             8.2        8.2     41.2     41.2   41.2
Effective Green, g (s)            8.2        8.2     41.2     41.2   41.2
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.14       0.14     0.69     0.69   0.69
Clearance Time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               244        219      570     2455    2445
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.07                        c0.37   0.16
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.00     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.52    0.02     0.01     0.54   0.23
Uniform Delay, d1                   23.8    22.1      2.8      4.4    3.3
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8     0.0      0.0      0.8    0.2
Delay (s)                           25.6    22.1      2.8      5.3    3.5
Level of Service                       C       C        A        A      A
Approach Delay (s)                  25.0                       5.3    3.5
Approach LOS                           C                         A      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              6.3       HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.53
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             59.4       Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   45.2%        ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                   9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       326    1435       30      113     696       66         31        5     62      77    115     201
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97    0.91              1.00    0.91                0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    0.99               1.00     0.86           1.00    0.90
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     5070              1770    5019               3433     3049           3433    3202
Flt Permitted                     0.20    1.00               0.12    1.00               0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  734    5070               220    5019               3433     3049           3433    3202
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85     0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                    384    1688       35      133     819       78         36        6     73      91     135     236
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        2       0         0      11       0          0       51      0       0     163       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             384     1721        0      133     886        0         36       28      0      91    208        0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                        Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)             49.0     38.8             40.1    33.9                2.5     31.1             6.8    32.5
Effective Green, g (s)            49.0     38.8             40.1    33.9                2.5     31.1             6.8    32.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.47     0.37              0.38   0.32               0.02     0.30            0.06    0.31
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      7.2               4.0    7.2                6.9      6.9             4.0     6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 628    1873               176    1620                 82     903             222     991
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.06    c0.34             0.04    0.18               0.01     0.01           c0.03   c0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.22                       0.24
v/c Ratio                         0.61     0.92              0.76   0.55               0.44     0.03            0.41    0.21
Uniform Delay, d1                 18.0     31.6              24.9   29.2               50.6     26.2            47.2    26.8
Progression Factor                0.76     0.55             1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.4      7.3             16.7     1.3                3.7      0.1             1.2     0.5
Delay (s)                         15.1     24.7              41.7   30.6               54.3     26.3            48.4    27.3
Level of Service                     B        C                 D      C                  D        C               D       C
Approach Delay (s)                         22.9                     32.0                        35.1                    31.4
Approach LOS                                  C                        C                           D                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           26.9        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.53
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 63.0%         ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                                            5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                      9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           76    120       39       249    184      116          86   1209      86     166     762      78
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.96              1.00    0.94                1.00    0.99            1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3409              1770    3334                1770    3504            1770    3490
Flt Permitted                        0.54   1.00               0.52    1.00                0.28    1.00            0.09    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1008    3409                967   3334                  519   3504              173   3490
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85      0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85    0.85   0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        89    141       46       293    216     136         101    1422    101      195     896       92
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      31       0         0      95       0           0       5      0        0       7       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  89    156        0       293    257        0        101    1518       0     195     981        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               18.1    18.1               31.1   31.1                50.5     49.0            52.9   52.9
Effective Green, g (s)              18.1    18.1               31.1   31.1                50.5     49.0            52.9   52.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.17    0.17               0.30   0.30                 0.48    0.47            0.50   0.50
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5             4.0    5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0             3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   174     588                355    987                 321    1635              238   1758
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.05              c0.07   0.08                 0.02   c0.43           c0.08   0.28
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.09                      c0.17                        0.13                    0.34
v/c Ratio                           0.51    0.27               0.83   0.26                 0.31    0.93            0.82   0.56
Uniform Delay, d1                   39.4    37.7               33.2   28.2                 18.5    26.4            25.3   18.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00   1.00                0.43     0.43            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               10.3     1.1               14.4    0.6                  0.4     8.8            19.3    1.3
Delay (s)                           49.8    38.8               47.6   28.8                  8.5    20.3            44.6   19.3
Level of Service                       D       D                  D      C                    A       C               D      B
Approach Delay (s)                          42.3                      37.4                         19.5                   23.4
Approach LOS                                   D                         D                            B                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             25.6        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.86
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    13.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   85.0%         ICU Level of Service                       E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 5
PM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         109     188       96       44      40      16         73   1302       31      13    977      78
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.95             1.00    0.96               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1768             1770    1782               1770    3539    1583    1770    3500
Flt Permitted                        0.71   1.00              0.25    1.00               0.18    1.00    1.00    0.11    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1330    1768               466   1782                 335   3539    1583      212   3500
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      128     221     113        52      47      19         86   1532       36      15   1149       92
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      19       0        0      15       0          0       0       4       0       5       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                128     315        0       52      51       0         86   1532       32      15   1236        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               23.6     23.6            23.6    23.6               70.4     70.4   70.4    70.4    70.4
Effective Green, g (s)              23.6     23.6            23.6    23.6               70.4     70.4   70.4    70.4    70.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.22     0.22            0.22    0.22               0.67     0.67   0.67    0.67    0.67
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   299      397             105     401                225    2373    1061     142    2347
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.18                    0.03                       c0.43                    0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.10                     0.11                       0.26            0.02    0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.43     0.79            0.50    0.13               0.38     0.65   0.03    0.11    0.53
Uniform Delay, d1                   34.9     38.4            35.5    32.5                7.7     10.1    5.8     6.1     8.8
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               0.09     0.09   0.00    0.52    0.47
Incremental Delay, d2                1.0     10.4             3.6     0.1                3.1      0.9    0.0     1.2     0.7
Delay (s)                           35.9     48.8            39.1    32.6                3.8      1.8    0.0     4.4     4.8
Level of Service                       D        D               D       C                  A        A      A       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                           45.2                    35.5                         1.8                    4.8
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                           A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.8       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.68
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   86.7%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                                       7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                             9/11/2008



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL       SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         5       5     1399     79      17     1096
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                                0%               0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85   0.85     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 6        6    1646      93     20     1289
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         TWLTL                   TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                     2                       2
Upstream signal (ft)                                 1227                     875
pX, platoon unblocked               0.68     0.59                   0.59
vC, conflicting volume              2331     823                    1739
vC1, stage 1 conf vol               1646
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                685
vCu, unblocked vol                   883        0                    876
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                       98      99                      96
cM capacity (veh/h)                  255     644                     455
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2   SB 3
Volume Total                        6           6     823     823     93       20       645    645
Volume Left                         6           0       0       0      0       20         0      0
Volume Right                        0           6       0       0     93        0         0      0
cSH                               255         644    1700    1700   1700      455      1700   1700
Volume to Capacity               0.02        0.01    0.48    0.48   0.05     0.04      0.38   0.38
Queue Length 95th (ft)              2           1       0       0      0        3         0      0
Control Delay (s)                19.4        10.6     0.0     0.0    0.0     13.3       0.0    0.0
Lane LOS                            C           B                               B
Approach Delay (s)               15.0                  0.0                    0.2
Approach LOS                        C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   48.7%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                                       8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           34    606       57       46    175        5          62   1300      16       5   1117      94
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0                 5.0     5.0            5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00                1.00    1.00           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00     1.00     0.95   1.00                 0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1863    1583     1770    1855                1770    3533           1770    3498
Flt Permitted                        0.57   1.00     1.00     0.10   1.00                 0.08    1.00           0.09    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1070    1863    1583       177   1855                 152    3533             169   3498
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85    0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        40    713       67       54    206        6          73   1529      19       6   1314      111
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      16        0       1       0           0       1      0       0       6       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  40    713       51       54    211        0          73   1547       0       6   1419        0
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     Perm                       pm+pt                   Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                    5      2                      6
Permitted Phases                       4                4       8                            2                     6
Actuated Green, G (s)               42.0     42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0                53.0     53.0          44.0     44.0
Effective Green, g (s)              42.0     42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0                53.0     53.0          44.0     44.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.40     0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40                 0.50    0.50          0.42     0.42
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0                  5.0     5.0           5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0                  3.0     3.0           3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   428      745     633      71     742                 138    1783             71    1466
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.38                    0.11                 0.02   c0.44                  c0.41
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.04             0.03    0.30                         0.25                  0.04
v/c Ratio                           0.09     0.96    0.08    0.76    0.28                 0.53    0.87          0.08     0.97
Uniform Delay, d1                   19.6     30.6    19.5    27.2    21.3                 43.5    22.9          18.4     29.8
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00                0.50     0.42          0.66     0.66
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     22.8     0.1    37.3     0.2                  3.4     5.6           2.1     15.8
Delay (s)                           19.7     53.4    19.6    64.5    21.5                 25.1    15.2          14.3     35.5
Level of Service                       B        D       B       E       C                    C       B             B        D
Approach Delay (s)                           49.0                    30.3                         15.6                   35.4
Approach LOS                                    D                       C                            B                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             30.0       HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.93
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   90.5%        ICU Level of Service                       E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 8
PM Peak Period                                                                                    9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                       9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         154     978       93     146     553       86         287     658     268      120     574     217
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9         4.0      6.3     6.3      4.0     6.3     6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.95     1.00    0.97    0.95     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00        0.29    1.00     1.00    0.36    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    3539    1583     3433    3539    1583          532    3539    1583      668    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85        0.85     0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      181    1151     109      172     651     101          338     774     315      141     675     255
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      68        0       0      68            0       0     145        0       0     204
Lane Group Flow (vph)                181    1151       41     172     651       33         338     774     170      141     675       51
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt            Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8            2              2         6               6
Actuated Green, G (s)               10.2     39.1    39.1      7.0   34.0     34.0        31.7    31.7    31.7     23.3     21.0    21.0
Effective Green, g (s)              10.2     39.1    39.1      7.0   34.0     34.0        31.7    31.7    31.7     23.3     21.0    21.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.10     0.37    0.37     0.07   0.32     0.32        0.30    0.30    0.30      0.22    0.20    0.20
Clearance Time (s)                   5.9      5.9     5.9      4.0    5.9      5.9          4.0    6.3     6.3       4.0     6.3     6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   333    1318      589     229    1146     513         369     1068    478       222     708     317
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.05    c0.33            c0.05   0.18                c0.15    0.22             0.04    c0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.03                     0.02        0.12            0.11      0.10            0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.54     0.87    0.07     0.75   0.57     0.06        0.92    0.72    0.36     0.64     0.95    0.16
Uniform Delay, d1                   45.2     30.6    21.2     48.1   29.4     24.5        32.2    32.8    28.7     38.4     41.5    34.7
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00     0.62   0.76     1.41        1.00    1.00    1.00     0.37     0.43    0.76
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8      8.2     0.2     11.8    1.8      0.2        26.7     4.3     2.1       2.5    13.2     0.4
Delay (s)                           47.0     38.9    21.5     41.6   24.3     34.8        58.9    37.0    30.7      16.5    30.9    26.8
Level of Service                       D        D       C        D      C        C            E      D       C         B       C       C
Approach Delay (s)                           38.6                    28.7                         40.8                      28.0
Approach LOS                                    D                       C                            D                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             35.0       HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.90
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                     20.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   80.6%        ICU Level of Service                       D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 9
PM Peak Period                                                                               11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                               9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       16     546       7       5     153        5        5      10     5      5        5      18
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85   0.85     0.85      0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)                19    642       8        6    180        6         6     12      6      6       6       21
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              186                     651                       900    882    646    886      883     183
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  186                     651                       900    882    646    886      883     183
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                     2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       99                     99                        98     96     99     98       98      98
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1389                    936                       245    280    471    249      279     860
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          19    651       6      186     24       33
Volume Left                           19      0       6        0      6        6
Volume Right                           0      8       0        6      6       21
cSH                                 1389   1700     936    1700     300      475
Volume to Capacity                  0.01   0.38    0.01     0.11   0.08     0.07
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1      0       0        0      6        6
Control Delay (s)                    7.6    0.0     8.9      0.0   18.0     13.1
Lane LOS                               A              A               C        B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.2            0.3            18.0     13.1
Approach LOS                                                          C        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        1.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 39.2%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 10
PM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           43    164       26       83    129       18         59    426     373       10    178      19
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98             1.00    0.98               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1824             1770    1829               1770    1863    1583    1770    1836
Flt Permitted                        0.65   1.00              0.62    1.00               0.61    1.00    1.00    0.44    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1207    1824             1152    1829               1145    1863    1583      816   1836
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        51    193       31       98    152       21         69    501     439       12     209      22
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      14       0        0      13       0          0       0     199       0       6       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  51    210        0       98    160        0         69    501     240       12    225        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)                8.6      8.6             8.6     8.6               23.6     23.6   23.6    23.6    23.6
Effective Green, g (s)               8.6      8.6             8.6     8.6               23.6     23.6   23.6    23.6    23.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.20     0.20            0.20    0.20               0.55     0.55   0.55    0.55    0.55
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  240      363             229     364                626     1018    865     446     1003
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.11                    0.09                       c0.27                    0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.04                     0.09                       0.06            0.15    0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.21     0.58            0.43    0.44               0.11     0.49   0.28    0.03    0.22
Uniform Delay, d1                   14.5     15.7            15.1    15.2                4.7      6.1    5.2     4.5     5.1
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.4      2.2             1.3     0.9                0.4      1.7    0.8     0.1     0.5
Delay (s)                           14.9     17.9            16.4    16.0                5.1      7.8    6.0     4.6     5.6
Level of Service                       B        B               B       B                  A        A      A       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                           17.3                    16.2                         6.8                    5.5
Approach LOS                                    B                       B                           A                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.7       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.51
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             43.2       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   69.3%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 11
PM Peak Period                                                                                   13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                     9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           13      98      30       58      58      86         17   1864       61       60   1656      16
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.96             1.00    0.91               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1798             1770    1696               1770    3539    1583     1770    3534
Flt Permitted                        0.47   1.00              0.54    1.00               0.08    1.00    1.00     0.06    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     880   1798             1001    1696                 147   3539    1583       106   3534
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        15    115       35       68      68    101          20   2193       72       71   1948       19
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      13       0        0      63       0          0       0      18        0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  15    137        0       68    106        0         20   2193       54       71   1967        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               12.9     12.9            12.9    12.9               66.1     66.1   66.1     75.6     75.6
Effective Green, g (s)              12.9     12.9            12.9    12.9               66.1     66.1   66.1     75.6     75.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13     0.13            0.13    0.13               0.66     0.66   0.66      0.76    0.76
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   114      232             129     219                 97    2339    1046      172    2672
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.08                    0.06                       c0.62             0.02   c0.56
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02                     0.07                       0.14            0.03      0.29
v/c Ratio                           0.13     0.59            0.53    0.49               0.21     0.94   0.05      0.41    0.74
Uniform Delay, d1                   38.6     41.1            40.7    40.5                6.7     15.1    5.9      22.4     6.7
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5      4.0             3.9     1.7                4.8      8.8    0.1       1.6     1.8
Delay (s)                           39.1     45.0            44.5    42.2               11.4     23.9    6.0      24.0     8.6
Level of Service                       D        D               D       D                  B        C      A         C       A
Approach Delay (s)                           44.5                    42.8                        23.2                      9.1
Approach LOS                                    D                       D                           C                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             18.9       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.91
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            100.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   17.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   79.9%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 12
PM Peak Period                                                                         39: Boston Ave & Martin St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/11/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         607      20      20     445     274      194
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900   1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97            1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00           1.00     1.00    0.94
Flt Protected                       0.95            0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3430           1770     3539    3319
Flt Permitted                       0.95            0.45     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3430             831    3539    3319
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85   0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                      714      24      24     524     322     228
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    3      0       0        0     154       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                735       0      24     524     396        0
Turn Type                                          Perm
Protected Phases                       4                       2       6
Permitted Phases                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)            14.3               11.7     11.7   11.7
Effective Green, g (s)           14.3               11.7     11.7   11.7
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.40               0.32     0.32   0.32
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0      5.0    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              1362                 270    1150    1079
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.21                       c0.15   0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.54            0.09     0.46   0.37
Uniform Delay, d1                    8.3             8.4      9.6    9.3
Progression Factor                  1.00            1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.4             0.1      0.3    0.2
Delay (s)                            8.7             8.6      9.9    9.5
Level of Service                       A               A        A      A
Approach Delay (s)                   8.7                      9.9    9.5
Approach LOS                           A                        A      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             9.3       HCM Level of Service          A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.50
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            36.0       Sum of lost time (s)        10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  42.9%        ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 13
PM Peak Period                                                                                  100: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Mid Term Traffic Volumes                                                                                                   9/11/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           14    511       16       51    145       45         5     462     274     54     495       5
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0              5.0     5.0                        5.0                    5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                        0.95                   0.95
Frt                                  1.00    1.00             1.00    0.96                       0.94                   1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00                       1.00                   1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1854             1770    1797                       3342                   3517
Flt Permitted                        0.62   1.00              0.24    1.00                       0.95                   0.74
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1152    1854               444   1797                       3175                   2622
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                        16    601       19       60    171       53          6     544    322      64     582       6
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       2       0        0      23       0          0     119      0       0       1       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  16    618        0       60    201        0          0    753       0       0    651        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm                   Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                      6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2                      6
Actuated Green, G (s)               18.5     18.5            18.5    18.5                       15.2                    15.2
Effective Green, g (s)              18.5     18.5            18.5    18.5                       15.2                    15.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.42     0.42            0.42    0.42                       0.35                    0.35
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0             5.0     5.0                        5.0                     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                        3.0                     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   488      785             188     761                       1104                     912
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.33                    0.11
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.14                               0.24                   c0.25
v/c Ratio                           0.03     0.79            0.32    0.26                       0.68                    0.71
Uniform Delay, d1                    7.4     10.9             8.4     8.2                       12.2                    12.4
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00                       1.00                    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.0      5.2             1.0     0.2                        1.8                     2.7
Delay (s)                            7.4     16.1             9.4     8.4                       13.9                    15.0
Level of Service                       A        B               A       A                          B                       B
Approach Delay (s)                           15.9                     8.6                       13.9                    15.0
Approach LOS                                    B                       A                          B                       B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             14.1       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.75
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             43.7       Sum of lost time (s)                   10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   85.0%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 14
AM Peak Period                                                                                           1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        74      252       30        44     599      36        23        29         5     86       100      237
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900      1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0       6.0               4.0      6.0                        5.5       5.5              5.5      5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00     0.95              1.00     0.95                        1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      0.98              1.00     0.99                       1.00      0.85             1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00                       0.98      1.00             0.98     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770      3483              1770     3509                       1823      1583             1821     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.19     1.00               0.53     1.00                       0.82      1.00             0.82     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  347     3483               992     3509                       1532      1583             1527     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92      0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92      0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%    120%      120%     120%    120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     97      329       39        57     781       47        30       38         7     112      130      309
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        11       0         0        5       0         0        0         5       0        0      184
Lane Group Flow (vph)               97      357        0        57     823        0         0       68         2       0      242      125
Turn Type                       pm+pt                       pm+pt                       Perm              Perm     Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7        4                  3       8                          2                          6
Permitted Phases                     4                           8                         2                  2       6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)             32.0    32.0               32.2     30.2                       24.5      24.5             24.5     24.5
Effective Green, g (s)            32.0    32.0               32.2     30.2                       24.5      24.5             24.5     24.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.43    0.43                0.43    0.40                       0.33      0.33             0.33     0.33
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                 4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5              5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                 3.0     3.0                        3.0       3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 239    1486                457    1413                         500       517              499      517
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.03    0.10               0.00    c0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.15                        0.05                               0.04      0.00            c0.16     0.08
v/c Ratio                         0.41     0.24               0.12    0.58                       0.14      0.00             0.48     0.24
Uniform Delay, d1                 14.2     13.7               13.0    17.5                       17.8      17.0             20.2     18.5
Progression Factor                0.62     0.51              1.00     1.00                       1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.1      0.4                0.1     1.8                        0.6       0.0              3.3      1.1
Delay (s)                         10.0      7.4               13.1    19.2                       18.4      17.0             23.6     19.6
Level of Service                     A        A                  B       B                          B         B                C        B
Approach Delay (s)                          7.9                       18.8                       18.2                       21.3
Approach LOS                                  A                          B                          B                          C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            16.9        HCM Level of Service                         B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.53
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            75.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      15.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  58.9%         ICU Level of Service                         B
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                             2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                      9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        19       164       30       438     488      14          70       58     152      13        10       48
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0        5.0               5.0      5.0                5.0      5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       0.95               1.00    0.95                1.00     1.00     1.00             1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00       0.98              1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00     0.85             1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00             0.97     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       3457              1770     3525               1770     1863     1583             1811     1583
Flt Permitted                    0.40       1.00               0.60     1.00               0.74     1.00     1.00             0.82     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 750       3457              1108     3525               1374     1863     1583             1521     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%     120%    120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     25       214       39       571     637       18         91       76     198       17       13       63
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         18       0         0        2       0          0        0      171       0        0       54
Lane Group Flow (vph)               25       235        0       571     653        0         91       76       27       0       30        9
Turn Type                       Perm                         pm+pt                       Perm              Perm     Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3       8                           2                         6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                          2                 2       6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)               25.6   25.6                54.6   54.6                10.4     10.4     10.4             10.4     10.4
Effective Green, g (s)              25.6   25.6                54.6   54.6                10.4     10.4     10.4             10.4     10.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.34   0.34                0.73   0.73                0.14     0.14     0.14             0.14     0.14
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0     5.0                5.0    5.0                 5.0      5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                 3.0      3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   256   1180               1018    2566                 191      258      220              211     220
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.07              c0.18   0.19                         0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.03                      c0.23                      c0.07              0.02             0.02     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.10    0.20               0.56    0.25               0.48     0.29     0.12             0.14     0.04
Uniform Delay, d1                   16.8    17.5                5.7     3.4               29.8     29.0     28.3             28.4     28.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.57    0.46               1.00     1.00     1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.8     0.4                0.6     0.2                1.9      0.6      0.3              0.3      0.1
Delay (s)                           17.6    17.8                3.9     1.8               31.7     29.6     28.6             28.7     28.0
Level of Service                       B       B                  A       A                  C        C        C                C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          17.8                        2.8                        29.6                      28.3
Approach LOS                                   B                          A                           C                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             11.1        HCM Level of Service                         B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.54
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             75.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   59.5%         ICU Level of Service                         B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                            Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                           3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL      NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        90          5        5     196      432      10
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00     1.00     0.95     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.85     1.00     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1583     1770     3539     3527
Flt Permitted                    0.95       1.00     0.44     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1770       1583      811     3539     3527
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                   117           7        7     256      563       13
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0          6        0        0        2       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             117           1        7     256      574        0
Turn Type                                  Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                      4                          2        6
Permitted Phases                               4        2
Actuated Green, G (s)             8.7        8.7     51.3    51.3      51.3
Effective Green, g (s)            8.7        8.7     51.3    51.3      51.3
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.12       0.12     0.73    0.73      0.73
Clearance Time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               220        197      594     2594     2585
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.07                         0.07    c0.16
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.00     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.53    0.00     0.01     0.10     0.22
Uniform Delay, d1                   28.7    26.9      2.5      2.7      3.0
Progression Factor                  0.98    0.98     0.42     0.38     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                2.5     0.0      0.0      0.1      0.2
Delay (s)                           30.7    26.4      1.1      1.1      3.2
Level of Service                       C       C        A        A        A
Approach Delay (s)                  30.5                       1.1      3.2
Approach LOS                           C                         A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              6.1        HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.27
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0        Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   29.0%         ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                       Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                                   4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         5      576       18        44    1418      43          10        5     16         8        5      0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0       7.2               4.0      7.2                6.9      6.9              4.0      6.9
Lane Util. Factor                0.97      0.91               1.00    0.91                0.97     0.95             0.97     0.95
Frt                               1.00      1.00              1.00     1.00               1.00     0.89             1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95      1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00             0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433      5063              1770     5063               3433     3141             3433     3539
Flt Permitted                    0.09      1.00               0.28     1.00               0.95     1.00             0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 338      5063                528    5063               3433     3141             3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92      0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%    120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      7      751       23        57    1850       56         13        7      21       10        7       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         3       0         0        3       0          0       13       0        0        0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                7      771        0        57    1903        0         13       15       0       10        7       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                       pm+pt                         Prot                      Prot             Free
Protected Phases                     7        4                  3       8                   5       2                 1       6
Permitted Phases                     4                           8                                                                  Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            43.8     42.8                49.8    45.8                1.6     40.1              1.0    36.6
Effective Green, g (s)           43.8     42.8                49.8    45.8                1.6     40.1              1.0    36.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.40    0.39                0.45    0.42               0.01     0.36             0.01    0.33
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     7.2                 4.0     7.2                6.9      6.9              4.0     6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                 3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0              3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                163     1970                 284   2108                  50    1145                31    1178
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.00     0.15               c0.01   c0.38              c0.00    c0.00             0.00    0.00
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.02                         0.08
v/c Ratio                        0.04      0.39               0.20    0.90               0.26     0.01             0.32     0.01
Uniform Delay, d1                24.2      24.2               17.4    30.0               53.6     22.3             54.2     24.5
Progression Factor               0.80      0.83               1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1      0.6                0.3     6.9                2.8      0.0              6.0      0.0
Delay (s)                         19.4     20.8               17.7    36.9               56.4     22.3             60.1     24.5
Level of Service                     B        C                  B       D                  E        C                E        C
Approach Delay (s)                         20.8                       36.3                        33.1                      45.5
Approach LOS                                  C                          D                           C                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            32.0        HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.50
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           110.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      25.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  58.3%         ICU Level of Service                         B
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                                              5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                      9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        39         76      64       211     357      67          79     359      95        90     714      90
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.5        5.5               4.0      5.5                4.0      5.5              4.0      5.5
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       0.95               1.00    0.95                1.00     0.95             1.00     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.93              1.00     0.98               1.00     0.97             1.00     0.98
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00             0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       3297              1770     3456               1770     3428             1770     3480
Flt Permitted                    0.45       1.00               0.52     1.00               0.20     1.00             0.27     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 829       3297                961    3456                 365    3428               497    3480
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%    120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     51         99      83       275     466       87       103      468      124     117      931      117
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         63       0         0       22       0          0       33       0        0       14       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               51       119        0       275     531        0       103      559        0     117     1035        0
Turn Type                       Perm                         pm+pt                       pm+pt                     pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3       8                   5       2                 1       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               17.0    17.0               26.0   26.0                26.5     25.0             25.0     25.0
Effective Green, g (s)              17.0    17.0               26.0   26.0                26.5     25.0             25.0     25.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24    0.24               0.37   0.37                 0.38    0.36              0.36    0.36
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5               4.0     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0               3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   201     801                415   1284                 218    1224               250    1243
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.04              c0.05   0.15                 0.03   c0.16              0.03   c0.30
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.06                      c0.20                        0.15                      0.14
v/c Ratio                           0.25    0.15               0.66    0.41                0.47    0.46              0.47    0.83
Uniform Delay, d1                   21.4    20.8               18.0    16.3                22.3    17.3              16.0    20.6
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00               0.86     0.91              1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                3.0     0.4                4.0     1.0                 1.6     1.2               1.4     6.6
Delay (s)                           24.4    21.2               22.0    17.3                20.8    17.0              17.4    27.2
Level of Service                       C       C                  C       B                   C       B                 B       C
Approach Delay (s)                          21.9                       18.9                        17.6                      26.2
Approach LOS                                   C                          B                           B                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             21.7        HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                       9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   73.9%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 5
AM Peak Period                                                                                             6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        59         62      55        49       33     10          55     469        26       19      900     50
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.5        5.5               5.5      5.5                5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00              1.00     1.00                1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.93              1.00     0.97               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1731              1770     1798               1770     3539     1583     1770     3511
Flt Permitted                    0.72       1.00               0.65     1.00               0.20     1.00     1.00     0.42     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1342       1731              1206     1798                 371    3539     1583       783    3511
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     77         81      72        64       43      13         72      612       34       25    1174       65
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         52       0         0       11       0          0        0       10        0        3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               77       101        0        64       45       0         72     612        24       25    1236        0
Turn Type                       Perm                         Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                               4                          8                           2                          6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                           2                2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)                9.0     9.0               9.0      9.0               50.0    50.0     50.0      50.0     50.0
Effective Green, g (s)               9.0     9.0               9.0      9.0               50.0    50.0     50.0      50.0     50.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13    0.13              0.13     0.13               0.71    0.71     0.71      0.71     0.71
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5      5.5                5.5      5.5     5.5       5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  173     223               155      231                265     2528     1131      559     2508
v/s Ratio Prot                             c0.06                       0.02                        0.17                      c0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.06                      0.05                        0.19              0.02     0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.45    0.45              0.41     0.19               0.27     0.24     0.02     0.04     0.49
Uniform Delay, d1                   28.2    28.2              28.1     27.3                3.5      3.5      2.9      3.0      4.4
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00               0.96     0.93     0.97     0.20     0.18
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8     1.5               1.8      0.4                2.4      0.2      0.0      0.1      0.5
Delay (s)                           30.0    29.7              29.9     27.7                5.8      3.4      2.8      0.7      1.3
Level of Service                       C       C                 C        C                  A        A        A        A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          29.8                       28.8                         3.6                        1.2
Approach LOS                                   C                          C                           A                          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              6.2        HCM Level of Service                         A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   75.1%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                            Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                                       7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                          9/12/2008



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL       SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         5       5      527     14       5      973
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                                0%               0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 7        7     687      18      7     1269
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         TWLTL                   TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                     2                       2
Upstream signal (ft)                                 1227                     875
pX, platoon unblocked               0.87
vC, conflicting volume              1335     344                     706
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                687
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                648
vCu, unblocked vol                  1090     344                     706
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                       98      99                      99
cM capacity (veh/h)                  397     652                     888
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2   SB 3
Volume Total                        7           7     344     344     18        7       635    635
Volume Left                         7           0       0       0      0        7         0      0
Volume Right                        0           7       0       0     18        0         0      0
cSH                               397         652    1700    1700   1700      888      1700   1700
Volume to Capacity               0.02        0.01    0.20    0.20   0.01     0.01      0.37   0.37
Queue Length 95th (ft)              1           1       0       0      0        1         0      0
Control Delay (s)                14.2        10.6     0.0     0.0    0.0      9.1       0.0    0.0
Lane LOS                            B           B                               A
Approach Delay (s)               12.4                  0.0                    0.0
Approach LOS                        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          0.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   42.3%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                                         8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                      9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        13       152        19       34     146       5          41     594       5         5    1022       112
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0                5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00               1.00     0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00
Frt                               1.00       1.00     0.85     1.00     0.99               1.00     1.00             1.00     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00                0.95     1.00             0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1863     1583     1770     1853               1770     3534             1770     3539     1583
Flt Permitted                    0.53       1.00     1.00     0.52     1.00                0.12     1.00             0.36     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 980       1863     1583      975     1853                216     3534               662    3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%    120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     17       198        25       44     190        7         53      775       7        7    1333       146
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0          0       21        0        2       0          0        1       0        0        0       63
Lane Group Flow (vph)               17       198         4       44     195        0         53     781        0        7    1333        83
Turn Type                       Perm                Perm     Perm                        pm+pt                     Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                               4                          8                   5       2                         6
Permitted Phases                       4                4        8                            2                         6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)               12.3    12.3     12.3     12.3     12.3               47.7     47.7             39.6     39.6     39.6
Effective Green, g (s)              12.3    12.3     12.3     12.3     12.3               47.7     47.7             39.6     39.6     39.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.18    0.18     0.18     0.18     0.18                0.68    0.68             0.57     0.57     0.57
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0                 5.0     5.0               5.0     5.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0                 3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   172     327      278      171      326                216    2408               375    2002       896
v/s Ratio Prot                             c0.11                       0.11                0.01   c0.22                     c0.38
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02             0.00     0.05                         0.16                     0.01              0.05
v/c Ratio                           0.10    0.61     0.02     0.26     0.60                0.25    0.32             0.02     0.67     0.09
Uniform Delay, d1                   24.2    26.6     23.8     24.9     26.6                 6.8     4.6              6.7     10.6      7.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00     0.82     0.85               1.00     1.00             0.54     0.59     0.46
Incremental Delay, d2                0.3     3.2      0.0      0.8      2.9                 0.6     0.4              0.1      1.7      0.2
Delay (s)                           24.5    29.8     23.9     21.2     25.5                 7.4     4.9              3.7      8.0      3.4
Level of Service                       C       C        C        C        C                   A       A                A        A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          28.8                       24.7                         5.1                       7.5
Approach LOS                                   C                          C                           A                         A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.1        HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.65
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   66.3%         ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 8
AM Peak Period                                                                                     9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      106        326        93     378     1204        55       137      272        96       74     552      152
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.9        5.9      5.9      4.0      5.9      5.9       4.0       6.3      6.3      4.0      6.3      6.3
Lane Util. Factor                0.97       0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00       0.97     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Frt                               1.00       1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433       3539     1583     3433     3539     1583      3433      3539     1583     1770     3539     1583
Flt Permitted                    0.95       1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00       0.17     1.00     1.00     0.44     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                3433       3539     1583     3433     3539     1583        600     3539     1583      819     3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92      0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                   138        425      121      493     1570        72       179      355      125        97     720      198
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0          0       81        0        0       31          0        0       98        0        0       86
Lane Group Flow (vph)             138        425        40     493     1570        41       179      355        27       97     720      112
Turn Type                         Prot              Perm       Prot            Perm      pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm
Protected Phases                     7         4                  3       8                    5       2                  1       6
Permitted Phases                                        4                          8           2                2         6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)                9.2    36.7     36.7     23.0     48.6     48.6       29.1     24.1     24.1     31.1     25.1     25.1
Effective Green, g (s)               9.2    36.7     36.7     23.0     48.6     48.6       29.1     24.1     24.1     31.1     25.1     25.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.08    0.33     0.33     0.21     0.44     0.44       0.26     0.22     0.22      0.28    0.23     0.23
Clearance Time (s)                   5.9     5.9      5.9      4.0      5.9      5.9         4.0     6.3      6.3       4.0     6.3      6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  287    1181      528      718     1564      699        288      775      347       283     808      361
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.04   c0.12              0.14    c0.44               c0.03     0.10              0.02    c0.20
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.03                       0.03       0.14              0.02      0.08             0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.48    0.36     0.08     0.69     1.00     0.06       0.62     0.46     0.08     0.34     0.89     0.31
Uniform Delay, d1                   48.1    27.8     25.1     40.2     30.7     17.6       32.6     37.3     34.1     30.0     41.1     35.2
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00     0.52     0.37     0.19       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.3     0.9      0.3      2.0     20.4      0.1        4.1      0.4      0.1       0.7    12.1      0.5
Delay (s)                           49.4    28.6     25.3     23.0     31.6      3.5       36.7     37.7     34.2      30.8    53.2     35.7
Level of Service                       D       C        C        C        C        A          D        D        C         C       D        D
Approach Delay (s)                          32.2                       28.7                         36.8                       47.6
Approach LOS                                   C                          C                            D                          D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             34.7        HCM Level of Service                          C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.84
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            110.0        Sum of lost time (s)                       15.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   86.4%         ICU Level of Service                          E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                             Page 9
AM Peak Period                                                                                     10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         5       133        6      134        94     16         5       206     71      31       500     17
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0        5.0               5.0      5.0                        5.0                      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00              1.00     1.00                        0.95                     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.99              1.00     0.98                       0.96                     1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00                       1.00                     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1850              1770     1822                       3402                     3513
Flt Permitted                    0.67       1.00               0.64     1.00                       0.94                     0.92
Satd. Flow (perm)                1239       1850              1198     1822                       3213                     3238
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%    120%     120%    120%    120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      7       173        8      175      123       21         7      269      93      40      652      22
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0          3       0         0       12       0         0       40       0       0        3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                7       178        0      175      132        0         0     329        0       0      711       0
Turn Type                       Perm                         Perm                        Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                               4                          8                          2                        6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                          2                        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               12.8    12.8              12.8     12.8                      30.1                     30.1
Effective Green, g (s)              12.8    12.8              12.8     12.8                      30.1                     30.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24    0.24              0.24     0.24                      0.57                     0.57
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0      5.0                       5.0                      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0      3.0                       3.0                      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   300     448               290      441                      1828                     1842
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.10                       0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     c0.15                                0.10                    c0.22
v/c Ratio                           0.02    0.40              0.60     0.30                       0.18                     0.39
Uniform Delay, d1                   15.3    16.8              17.8     16.4                        5.5                      6.3
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00                       1.00                     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.0     0.6               3.5      0.4                        0.2                      0.6
Delay (s)                           15.3    17.4              21.3     16.8                        5.7                      6.9
Level of Service                       B       B                 C        B                          A                        A
Approach Delay (s)                          17.3                       19.3                        5.7                      6.9
Approach LOS                                   B                          B                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.3        HCM Level of Service                       B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.45
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             52.9        Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   62.5%         ICU Level of Service                        B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 10
AM Peak Period                                                                               11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                            9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       30     138       9       5     125        5        5      10     5      5       16      18
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92   0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                39    180      12        7    163        7         7     13      7      7      21       23
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              170                     192                       474    447    186    451      449     166
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  170                     192                       474    447    186    451      449     166
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                        3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       97                    100                        99     97     99     99       96      97
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1408                   1382                       460    490    856    492      489     878
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          39    192       7      170     26       51
Volume Left                           39      0       7        0      7        7
Volume Right                           0     12       0        7      7       23
cSH                                 1408   1700   1382     1700     539      615
Volume to Capacity                  0.03   0.11    0.00     0.10   0.05     0.08
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      0       0        0      4        7
Control Delay (s)                    7.6    0.0     7.6      0.0   12.0     11.4
Lane LOS                               A              A               B        B
Approach Delay (s)                   1.3            0.3            12.0     11.4
Approach LOS                                                          B        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        2.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 26.0%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 11
AM Peak Period                                                                                    12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        14       159       50        72     100      18          47     155      105        21     299      24
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.5        5.5               5.5      5.5                5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00              1.00     1.00                1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00       0.96              1.00     0.98               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1796              1770     1821               1770     1863     1583     1770     1842
Flt Permitted                    0.66       1.00               0.57     1.00               0.49     1.00     1.00     0.63     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1229       1796              1062     1821                 909    1863     1583     1175     1842
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     18       207       65        94     130       23         61     202      137        27      390      31
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         27       0         0       15       0          0        0       68        0        5       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               18       245        0        94     138        0         61     202        69       27     416        0
Turn Type                       Perm                         Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                               4                          8                           2                          6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                           2                 2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               11.0    11.0              11.0     11.0               22.2     22.2     22.2     22.2     22.2
Effective Green, g (s)              11.0    11.0              11.0     11.0               22.2     22.2     22.2     22.2     22.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.25    0.25              0.25     0.25               0.50     0.50     0.50     0.50     0.50
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5      5.5                5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   306     447               264      453                457      936      795      590      925
v/s Ratio Prot                             c0.14                       0.08                        0.11                      c0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                      0.09                        0.07              0.04     0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.06    0.55              0.36     0.30               0.13     0.22     0.09     0.05     0.45
Uniform Delay, d1                   12.7    14.4              13.7     13.5                5.9      6.1      5.7      5.6      7.1
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     1.4               0.8      0.4                0.6      0.5      0.2      0.1      1.6
Delay (s)                           12.7    15.8              14.5     13.9                6.5      6.7      5.9      5.8      8.7
Level of Service                       B       B                 B        B                  A        A        A        A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          15.6                       14.1                         6.4                        8.5
Approach LOS                                   B                          B                           A                          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.4        HCM Level of Service                         B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.48
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             44.2        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   71.0%         ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 12
AM Peak Period                                                                                      13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT       EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         5         54        5        77       58     35           5      675       85      121    2042      26
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900      1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.5        5.5                5.5      5.5                6.0      6.0      6.0      4.0      6.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00               1.00     1.00                1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.99               1.00     0.94               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00                0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1837               1770     1757               1770     3539     1583     1770     3533
Flt Permitted                    0.62       1.00                0.71     1.00               0.06     1.00     1.00     0.27     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1153       1837               1317     1757                 109    3539     1583       512    3533
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%      120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      7         70        7      100        76      46          7      880      111      158    2663       34
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0          3        0         0       24       0          0        0       39        0        0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                7         74        0      100        98       0          7     880        72     158     2697        0
Turn Type                       Perm                          Perm                        Perm              Perm     pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                           8                           2                  1       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                2          6
Actuated Green, G (s)               13.3    13.3               13.3     13.3               68.3    68.3     68.3      80.2     80.2
Effective Green, g (s)              13.3    13.3               13.3     13.3               68.3    68.3     68.3      80.2     80.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13    0.13               0.13     0.13               0.65    0.65     0.65       0.76    0.76
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5                6.0      6.0     6.0        4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   146     233                167      223                 71    2302     1030       486    2699
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.04                        0.06                        0.25               0.02   c0.76
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                      c0.08                        0.06              0.05      0.22
v/c Ratio                           0.05    0.32               0.60     0.44               0.10     0.38     0.07      0.33    1.00
Uniform Delay, d1                   40.3    41.7               43.3     42.4                6.9      8.5      6.7       4.0    12.4
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     0.8                5.7      1.4                2.8      0.5      0.1       0.4    17.1
Delay (s)                           40.4    42.5               49.0     43.8                9.6      9.0      6.9       4.3    29.5
Level of Service                       D       D                  D        D                  A        A        A         A       C
Approach Delay (s)                          42.3                        46.1                         8.8                       28.1
Approach LOS                                   D                           D                           A                          C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              24.7        HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.94
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   103.4%         ICU Level of Service                        G
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 13
AM Peak Period                                                                          39: Boston Ave & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                  9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR      NBL      NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      152         5        10       31     257     175
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0                5.0      5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                0.97               1.00     0.95     0.95
Frt                               0.99               1.00     1.00     0.94
Flt Protected                    0.95                0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3430               1770     3539     3324
Flt Permitted                    0.95                0.44     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                3430                821     3539     3324
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%    120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                   198          7       13       40     335      228
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 5         0        0        0       63       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             200          0       13       40     500        0
Turn Type                                          Perm
Protected Phases                      4                         2        6
Permitted Phases                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)             9.4               50.6    50.6      50.6
Effective Green, g (s)            9.4               50.6    50.6      50.6
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.13               0.72    0.72      0.72
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0     5.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0     3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               461                593     2558     2403
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.06                       0.01     c0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.43            0.02     0.02     0.21
Uniform Delay, d1                   27.9             2.7      2.7      3.2
Progression Factor                  0.22            1.00     1.00     0.17
Incremental Delay, d2                0.6             0.1      0.0      0.2
Delay (s)                            6.7             2.8      2.7      0.7
Level of Service                       A               A        A        A
Approach Delay (s)                   6.7                      2.7      0.7
Approach LOS                           A                        A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             2.3        HCM Level of Service          A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.24
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            70.0        Sum of lost time (s)        10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  29.0%         ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                       Page 14
PM Peak Period                                                                                           1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       361      631       30        31     363      92        36      149         10     56        72     121
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900      1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0       6.0               4.0      6.0                        5.5       5.5              5.5      5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00     0.95              1.00     0.95                        1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      0.99              1.00     0.97                       1.00      0.85             1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00                       0.99      1.00             0.98     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770      3515              1770     3432                       1845      1583             1823     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.31     1.00               0.33     1.00                       0.91      1.00             0.66     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  570     3515               612     3432                       1690      1583             1221     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92      0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92      0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%    120%      120%     120%    120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    471      823       39        40     473      120        47     194         13      73       94     158
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         3       0         0       18       0         0        0         9       0        0       97
Lane Group Flow (vph)             471       859        0        40     575        0         0     241          4       0     167        61
Turn Type                       pm+pt                       pm+pt                       Perm              Perm     Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7        4                  3       8                          2                          6
Permitted Phases                     4                           8                         2                  2       6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)             64.0    57.0               41.2    38.2                        29.5      29.5             29.5     29.5
Effective Green, g (s)            64.0    57.0               41.2    38.2                        29.5      29.5             29.5     29.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.61    0.54                0.39   0.36                        0.28      0.28             0.28     0.28
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                 4.0    6.0                         5.5       5.5              5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                 3.0    3.0                         3.0       3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 597    1908                273    1249                         475       445              343      445
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.16    0.24               0.00    0.17
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.32                        0.05                              c0.14      0.00             0.14     0.04
v/c Ratio                         0.79     0.45               0.15    0.46                       0.51      0.01             0.49     0.14
Uniform Delay, d1                 12.6     14.5               19.8    25.5                       31.7      27.2             31.4     28.2
Progression Factor                1.72     0.93              1.00     1.00                       1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              5.7      0.6                0.2     1.2                        3.8       0.0              4.9      0.6
Delay (s)                         27.3     14.1               20.1    26.7                       35.5      27.2             36.3     28.9
Level of Service                     C        B                  C       C                          D         C                D        C
Approach Delay (s)                         18.7                       26.3                       35.1                       32.7
Approach LOS                                  B                          C                          D                          C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            24.0        HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.68
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                       9.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  82.4%         ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                             2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                      9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        65       335       76       357     230      22          80     303      585      23        10       32
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0        5.0               5.0      5.0                5.0      5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       0.95               1.00    0.95                1.00     1.00     1.00             1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00       0.97              1.00     0.99               1.00     1.00     0.85             1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00             0.97     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       3441              1770     3492               1770     1863     1583             1800     1583
Flt Permitted                    0.55       1.00               0.31     1.00               0.73     1.00     1.00             0.56     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1030       3441                586    3492               1358     1863     1583             1041     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%     120%    120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     85       437       99       466     300       29       104      395      763       30       13       42
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         15       0         0        6       0          0        0      462       0        0       30
Lane Group Flow (vph)               85       521        0       466     323        0       104      395      301        0       43       12
Turn Type                       Perm                         pm+pt                       Perm              Perm     Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3       8                           2                         6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                          2                 2       6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)               36.7   36.7                64.7   64.7                30.3     30.3     30.3             30.3     30.3
Effective Green, g (s)              36.7   36.7                64.7   64.7                30.3     30.3     30.3             30.3     30.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.35   0.35                0.62   0.62                0.29     0.29     0.29             0.29     0.29
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0     5.0                5.0    5.0                 5.0      5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                 3.0      3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   360   1203                 620   2152                 392      538      457              300     457
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.15              c0.16   0.09                        c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.08                      c0.30                       0.08              0.19             0.04     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.24    0.43               0.75    0.15               0.27     0.73     0.66             0.14     0.03
Uniform Delay, d1                   24.2    26.2               12.2     8.5               28.8     33.7     32.8             27.7     26.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.39    0.36               0.85     0.87     0.83             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.5     1.1                4.9     0.1                0.3      4.5      3.0              0.2      0.0
Delay (s)                           25.8    27.3                9.6     3.2               24.7     33.8     30.0             27.9     26.8
Level of Service                       C       C                  A       A                  C        C        C                C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          27.1                        6.9                        30.8                      27.4
Approach LOS                                   C                          A                           C                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             23.0        HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.73
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   75.2%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                            Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                           3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL      NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      107          21        5    1120      465      13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00     1.00     0.95     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.85     1.00     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1583     1770     3539     3525
Flt Permitted                    0.95       1.00     0.41     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1770       1583      771     3539     3525
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                   140          27        7    1461      607       17
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         24        0        0        2       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             140           3        7    1461      622        0
Turn Type                                  Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                      4                          2        6
Permitted Phases                               4        2
Actuated Green, G (s)            13.5       13.5     81.5     81.5    81.5
Effective Green, g (s)           13.5       13.5     81.5     81.5    81.5
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.13       0.13     0.78     0.78    0.78
Clearance Time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                228        204      598    2747     2736
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.08                        c0.41    0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.00     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.61    0.02     0.01     0.53     0.23
Uniform Delay, d1                   43.3    40.0      2.7      4.5      3.2
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     0.49
Incremental Delay, d2                4.8     0.0      0.0      0.7      0.2
Delay (s)                           48.1    40.0      2.7      5.2      1.7
Level of Service                       D       D        A        A        A
Approach Delay (s)                  46.8                       5.2      1.7
Approach LOS                           D                         A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              7.3        HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.54
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            105.0        Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   52.6%         ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                       Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                                   4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      326      1420       30       113     684      66          31        5     62        77     115       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0       7.2               4.0      7.2                6.9      6.9              4.0      6.9
Lane Util. Factor                0.97      0.91               1.00    0.91                0.97     0.95             0.97     0.95
Frt                               1.00      1.00              1.00     0.99               1.00     0.86             1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95      1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00             0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433      5070              1770     5018               3433     3051             3433     3539
Flt Permitted                    0.18      1.00               0.10     1.00               0.95     1.00             0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 641      5070                187    5018               3433     3051             3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92      0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%    120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                   425      1852       39       147     892       86         40        7      81     100      150        0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         2       0         0        8       0          0       64       0        0        0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             425      1889        0      147      970        0         40       24       0     100      150        0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                       pm+pt                         Prot                      Prot             Free
Protected Phases                     7        4                  3       8                   5       2                 1       6
Permitted Phases                     4                           8                                                                  Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            51.4      51.4               55.9   52.7                 3.3     24.5              6.0     24.3
Effective Green, g (s)           51.4      51.4               55.9   52.7                 3.3     24.5              6.0     24.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.43     0.43               0.47   0.44                0.03     0.20             0.05     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      7.2                4.0    7.2                 6.9      6.9              4.0      6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                3.0    3.0                 3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                617     2172                 298   2204                  94     623              172      717
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.08     c0.37              c0.07   0.19                0.01     0.01            c0.03    c0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.21                         0.16
v/c Ratio                        0.69      0.87               0.49    0.44               0.43     0.04             0.58     0.21
Uniform Delay, d1                23.7      31.3               36.3    23.4               57.4     38.3             55.8     39.8
Progression Factor               1.04      0.63               1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00             1.08     0.89
Incremental Delay, d2              2.6      4.2                1.3     0.6                3.1      0.1              4.7      0.6
Delay (s)                         27.2     23.8               37.6    24.0               60.5     38.4             65.1     36.2
Level of Service                     C        C                  D       C                  E        D                E        D
Approach Delay (s)                         24.4                       25.8                        45.3                      47.7
Approach LOS                                  C                          C                           D                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            27.0        HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           120.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      18.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  71.2%         ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                                              5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                      9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        76       120       39       249     184     116          86    1088      86      166      643      78
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.5        5.5               4.0      5.5                4.0      5.5              4.0      5.5
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       0.95               1.00    0.95                1.00     0.95             1.00     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.96              1.00     0.94               1.00     0.99             1.00     0.98
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00             0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       3409              1770     3334               1770     3500             1770     3482
Flt Permitted                    0.52       1.00               0.51     1.00               0.30     1.00             0.12     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 970       3409                947    3334                 550    3500               224    3482
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%    120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     99       157       51       325     240      151       112     1419      112     217      839      102
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         35       0         0     103        0          0        6       0        0       10       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               99       173        0       325     288        0       112     1525        0     217      931        0
Turn Type                       Perm                         pm+pt                       pm+pt                     pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                  3       8                   5       2                 1       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2                         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               18.0    18.0               28.5   28.5                40.0     38.5              41.3   41.3
Effective Green, g (s)              18.0    18.0               28.5   28.5                40.0     38.5              41.3   41.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.20    0.20               0.32   0.32                 0.44    0.43              0.46   0.46
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5               4.0    5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0               3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   194     682                359   1056                 315    1497                240   1598
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.05              c0.07   0.09                 0.02   c0.44             c0.08   0.27
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.10                      c0.22                        0.14                      0.33
v/c Ratio                           0.51    0.25               0.91    0.27                0.36    1.02              0.90    0.58
Uniform Delay, d1                   32.1    30.3               28.9    23.0                18.0    25.8              20.4    18.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00               1.17     0.93              1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                9.3     0.9               25.3     0.6                 0.5    25.0              33.5     1.6
Delay (s)                           41.4    31.2               54.1    23.6                21.6    48.9              53.9    19.5
Level of Service                       D       C                  D       C                   C       D                 D       B
Approach Delay (s)                          34.5                       37.5                        47.1                      26.0
Approach LOS                                   C                          D                           D                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             37.9        HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.94
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             90.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      13.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   92.8%         ICU Level of Service                         F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 5
PM Peak Period                                                                                             6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        94       188       86        44       40     16          70    1181        31       13      858     75
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.5        5.5               5.5      5.5                5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00              1.00     1.00                1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.95              1.00     0.96               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1775              1770     1782               1770     3539     1583     1770     3496
Flt Permitted                    0.71       1.00               0.25     1.00               0.18     1.00     1.00     0.11     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1322       1775               466     1782                 338    3539     1583       198    3496
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                   123        245      112        57       52      21         91    1540        40       17    1119       98
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         20       0         0       16       0          0        0        5        0        6       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             123        337        0        57       57       0         91    1540        35       17    1211        0
Turn Type                       Perm                         Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                               4                          8                           2                          6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                           2                2          6
Actuated Green, G (s)               21.2    21.2              21.2     21.2               57.8     57.8    57.8      57.8    57.8
Effective Green, g (s)              21.2    21.2              21.2     21.2               57.8     57.8    57.8      57.8    57.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.24    0.24              0.24     0.24               0.64     0.64    0.64      0.64    0.64
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5      5.5                5.5      5.5     5.5        5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   311     418               110      420                217    2273     1017       127    2245
v/s Ratio Prot                             c0.19                       0.03                       c0.44                       0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.09                      0.12                        0.27              0.02     0.09
v/c Ratio                           0.40    0.81              0.52     0.14               0.42     0.68     0.03     0.13     0.54
Uniform Delay, d1                   29.0    32.5              30.0     27.2                7.9     10.2      5.9      6.3      8.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00               2.18     2.27     2.40     0.39     0.41
Incremental Delay, d2                0.8    10.9               4.1      0.1                3.4      0.9      0.0      1.7      0.7
Delay (s)                           29.8    43.3              34.0     27.3               20.6     24.1     14.2      4.1      4.4
Level of Service                       C       D                 C        C                  C        C        B        A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          39.9                       30.3                        23.7                        4.4
Approach LOS                                   D                          C                           C                          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             19.4        HCM Level of Service                         B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.71
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             90.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   92.3%         ICU Level of Service                         F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                            Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                                       7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                          9/12/2008



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL       SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         5       5     1278     79      17      977
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                                0%               0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 7        7    1667    103      22     1274
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         TWLTL                   TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                     2                       2
Upstream signal (ft)                                 1227                     875
pX, platoon unblocked               0.68     0.59                   0.59
vC, conflicting volume              2348     833                    1770
vC1, stage 1 conf vol               1667
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                682
vCu, unblocked vol                   882        0                    924
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                       97      99                      95
cM capacity (veh/h)                  246     643                     435
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2   SB 3
Volume Total                        7           7     833     833    103       22       637    637
Volume Left                         7           0       0       0      0       22         0      0
Volume Right                        0           7       0       0    103        0         0      0
cSH                               246         643    1700    1700   1700      435      1700   1700
Volume to Capacity               0.03        0.01    0.49    0.49   0.06     0.05      0.37   0.37
Queue Length 95th (ft)              2           1       0       0      0        4         0      0
Control Delay (s)                20.0        10.7     0.0     0.0    0.0     13.7       0.0    0.0
Lane LOS                            C           B                               B
Approach Delay (s)               15.3                  0.0                    0.2
Approach LOS                        C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          0.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   52.4%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                                          8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT       EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        26       606         48       46     175       5          52    1179      16         5    1022        84
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900      1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0        5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0                5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00               1.00     0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00
Frt                               1.00       1.00      0.85     1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00             1.00     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00                0.95     1.00             0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1863      1583     1770     1854               1770     3532             1770     3539     1583
Flt Permitted                    0.56       1.00      1.00     0.11     1.00                0.10     1.00             0.12     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1052       1863      1583      199     1854                189     3532               217    3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%      120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%    120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     34       790         63       60     228        7         68    1538       21        7    1333       110
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0          0        16        0        1       0          0        1       0        0        0       68
Lane Group Flow (vph)               34       790         47       60     234        0         68    1558        0        7    1333        42
Turn Type                       Perm                 Perm     Perm                        pm+pt                     Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                               4                           8                   5       2                         6
Permitted Phases                       4                 4        8                            2                        6                  6
Actuated Green, G (s)               37.4    37.4      37.4     37.4     37.4               42.6     42.6             34.4    34.4      34.4
Effective Green, g (s)              37.4    37.4      37.4     37.4     37.4               42.6     42.6             34.4    34.4      34.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.42    0.42      0.42     0.42     0.42                0.47    0.47             0.38    0.38      0.38
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0     5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0                 5.0     5.0              5.0      5.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0                 3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   437     774       658       83      770                146    1672                83    1353       605
v/s Ratio Prot                             c0.42                        0.13                0.02   c0.44                      0.38
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.03              0.03     0.30                         0.20                     0.03              0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.08    1.02      0.07     0.72     0.30                0.47    0.93             0.08     0.99     0.07
Uniform Delay, d1                   15.9    26.3      15.8     22.0     17.6                36.7    22.3             17.7     27.5     17.6
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00             1.21     1.23     2.42
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1    37.7       0.0     26.5      0.2                 2.3    10.9              1.8     19.9      0.2
Delay (s)                           16.0    64.0      15.9     48.5     17.8                39.0    33.2             23.2     53.6     42.9
Level of Service                       B       E         B        D        B                   D       C                C        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                          58.7                        24.1                        33.4                      52.7
Approach LOS                                   E                           C                           C                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              44.6        HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.97
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                              90.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   101.3%         ICU Level of Service                        G
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                            Page 8
PM Peak Period                                                                                     9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                        9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      133        978        93     146      553        74       287      570      268      105      499      188
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.9        5.9      5.9      4.0      5.9      5.9       4.0       6.3      6.3      4.0      6.3      6.3
Lane Util. Factor                0.97       0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00       0.97     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Frt                               1.00       1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433       3539     1583     3433     3539     1583      3433      3539     1583     1770     3539     1583
Flt Permitted                    0.95       1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00       0.18     1.00     1.00     0.14     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                3433       3539     1583     3433     3539     1583        666     3539     1583      262     3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92      0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                   173       1276      121      190      721        97       374      743      350      137      651      245
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0          0       60        0        0       59          0        0      145        0        0      186
Lane Group Flow (vph)             173       1276        61     190      721        38       374      743      205      137      651        59
Turn Type                         Prot              Perm       Prot            Perm      pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm
Protected Phases                     7         4                  3       8                    5       2                  1       6
Permitted Phases                                        4                          8           2                2         6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)               13.1    53.1     53.1      9.0    47.1      47.1       38.7     29.7     29.7     36.7     28.7     28.7
Effective Green, g (s)              13.1    53.1     53.1      9.0    47.1      47.1       38.7     29.7     29.7     36.7     28.7     28.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.11    0.44     0.44     0.08    0.39      0.39       0.32     0.25     0.25      0.31    0.24     0.24
Clearance Time (s)                   5.9     5.9      5.9      4.0     5.9       5.9         4.0     6.3      6.3       4.0     6.3      6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   375   1566       700     257     1389      621        422      876      392       181     846      379
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.05   c0.36             c0.06    0.20                c0.07     0.21              0.05     0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.04                       0.02      c0.22              0.13      0.18             0.04
v/c Ratio                           0.46    0.81     0.09     0.74     0.52     0.06       0.89     0.85     0.52     0.76     0.77     0.15
Uniform Delay, d1                   50.1    29.2     19.4     54.4     27.8     22.7       33.8     43.0     39.0     33.0     42.6     36.1
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00     0.68     1.39     4.11       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.9     4.8      0.2     10.0      1.3      0.2       19.5     10.0      4.9     16.4      6.7      0.9
Delay (s)                           51.0    33.9     19.6     47.1     40.0     93.5       53.3     53.0     43.9      49.4    49.2     36.9
Level of Service                       D       C        B        D        D        F          D        D        D         D       D        D
Approach Delay (s)                          34.7                       46.5                         50.9                       46.3
Approach LOS                                   C                          D                            D                          D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             44.1        HCM Level of Service                          D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.79
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            120.0        Sum of lost time (s)                       13.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   80.7%         ICU Level of Service                         D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                             Page 9
PM Peak Period                                                                                     10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                    9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         5       487        8        48     137      42         5      462     269      49       483      5
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0        5.0               5.0      5.0                        5.0                      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00              1.00     1.00                        0.95                     0.95
Frt                               1.00       1.00              1.00     0.96                       0.95                     1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00                       1.00                     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1858              1770     1797                       3344                     3518
Flt Permitted                    0.61       1.00               0.21     1.00                       0.95                     0.72
Satd. Flow (perm)                1142       1858               384     1797                       3175                     2546
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%    120%     120%    120%    120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      7       635       10        63     179       55         7      603     351      64      630       7
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0          1       0         0       19       0         0      107       0       0        1       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                7       644        0        63     215        0         0     854        0       0      700       0
Turn Type                       Perm                         Perm                        Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                               4                          8                          2                        6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                          2                        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               22.0    22.0              22.0     22.0                      19.0                      19.0
Effective Green, g (s)              22.0    22.0              22.0     22.0                      19.0                      19.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.43    0.43              0.43     0.43                      0.37                      0.37
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0      5.0                       5.0                       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0      3.0                       3.0                       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   493     801               166      775                      1183                       949
v/s Ratio Prot                             c0.35                       0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                      0.16                                0.27                    c0.27
v/c Ratio                           0.01    0.80              0.38     0.28                       0.72                     0.74
Uniform Delay, d1                    8.3    12.6               9.9      9.4                       13.7                     13.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00                       1.00                     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.0     5.9               1.5      0.2                        2.2                      3.0
Delay (s)                            8.3    18.5              11.3      9.6                       15.9                     16.9
Level of Service                       A       B                 B        A                          B                        B
Approach Delay (s)                          18.4                        9.9                       15.9                     16.9
Approach LOS                                   B                          A                          B                        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             16.1        HCM Level of Service                       B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.77
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             51.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   95.1%         ICU Level of Service                        F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 10
PM Peak Period                                                                               11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                            9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       16     525       7       5     136        5        5      10     5      5        5      18
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92   0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                21    685       9        7    177        7         7     13      7      7       7       23
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              184                     694                       948    928    689    933      929     181
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  184                     694                       948    928    689    933      929     181
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                     2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       98                     99                        97     95     99     97       98      97
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1391                    902                       226    262    446    230      262     862
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          21    694       7      184     26       37
Volume Left                           21      0       7        0      7        7
Volume Right                           0      9       0        7      7       23
cSH                                 1391   1700     902    1700     280      453
Volume to Capacity                  0.02   0.41    0.01     0.11   0.09     0.08
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1      0       1        0      8        7
Control Delay (s)                    7.6    0.0     9.0      0.0   19.2     13.6
Lane LOS                               A              A               C        B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.2            0.3            19.2     13.6
Approach LOS                                                          C        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        1.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 43.7%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 11
PM Peak Period                                                                                    12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        43       158       26        70     129      18          59     426      358        10     178      19
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.5        5.5               5.5      5.5                5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00              1.00     1.00                1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00       0.98              1.00     0.98               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1823              1770     1829               1770     1863     1583     1770     1836
Flt Permitted                    0.64       1.00               0.61     1.00               0.60     1.00     1.00     0.39     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1187       1823              1135     1829               1118     1863     1583       727    1836
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     56       206       34        91     168       23         77     556      467        13      232      25
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         15       0         0       13       0          0        0      214        0        6       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               56       225        0        91     178        0         77     556      253        13     251        0
Turn Type                       Perm                         Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                               4                          8                           2                          6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                           2                 2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)                8.9     8.9               8.9      8.9               23.5     23.5     23.5     23.5     23.5
Effective Green, g (s)               8.9     8.9               8.9      8.9               23.5     23.5     23.5     23.5     23.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.21    0.21              0.21     0.21               0.54     0.54     0.54     0.54     0.54
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5      5.5                5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  243     374               233      375                605     1009      857      394      994
v/s Ratio Prot                             c0.12                       0.10                       c0.30                       0.14
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.05                      0.08                        0.07              0.16     0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.23    0.60              0.39     0.48               0.13     0.55     0.30     0.03     0.25
Uniform Delay, d1                   14.4    15.6              14.9     15.2                4.9      6.5      5.4      4.6      5.3
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.5     2.7               1.1      1.0                0.4      2.2      0.9      0.2      0.6
Delay (s)                           14.9    18.4              16.0     16.1                5.3      8.7      6.3      4.8      5.9
Level of Service                       B       B                 B        B                  A        A        A        A        A
Approach Delay (s)                          17.7                       16.1                         7.4                        5.8
Approach LOS                                   B                          B                           A                          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.0        HCM Level of Service                         B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.57
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             43.4        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   75.4%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 12
PM Peak Period                                                                                     13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        13         98      30        54       58     82          17    1864        58       57    1656      16
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900       1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.5        5.5               5.5      5.5                6.0      6.0      6.0      4.0      6.0
Lane Util. Factor                1.00       1.00              1.00     1.00                1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95
Frt                               1.00       0.96              1.00     0.91               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95       1.00               0.95     1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770       1797              1770     1699               1770     3539     1583     1770     3534
Flt Permitted                    0.40       1.00               0.45     1.00               0.05     1.00     1.00     0.05     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 744       1797               841     1699                  96    3539     1583        90    3534
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%     120%     120%     120%     120%      120%     120%     120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     17       128       39        70       76     107         22    2431        76       74    2160       21
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         10       0         0       49       0          0        0       16        0        0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               17       157        0        70     134        0         22    2431        60       74    2181        0
Turn Type                       Perm                         Perm                        Perm              Perm     pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                          8                           2                  1       6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8                           2                2          6
Actuated Green, G (s)               15.3    15.3              15.3     15.3               78.4     78.4    78.4      88.2     88.2
Effective Green, g (s)              15.3    15.3              15.3     15.3               78.4     78.4    78.4      88.2     88.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.13    0.13              0.13     0.13               0.68     0.68    0.68       0.77    0.77
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5      5.5                6.0      6.0     6.0        4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                    99     239               112      226                 65    2413     1079       154    2710
v/s Ratio Prot                             c0.09                       0.08                       c0.69               0.02   c0.62
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02                      0.08                        0.23              0.04      0.34
v/c Ratio                           0.17    0.66              0.62     0.59               0.34     1.01     0.06      0.48    0.80
Uniform Delay, d1                   44.2    47.3              47.1     46.9                7.6     18.3      6.1      31.1     8.2
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.8     6.3              10.4      4.1               13.6     20.1      0.1       2.4     2.7
Delay (s)                           45.1    53.7              57.5     51.0               21.1     38.4      6.2      33.4    10.8
Level of Service                       D       D                 E        D                  C        D        A         C       B
Approach Delay (s)                          52.9                       52.8                        37.3                       11.6
Approach LOS                                   D                          D                           D                          B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             27.5        HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.97
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            115.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      17.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   91.5%         ICU Level of Service                         F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 13
PM Peak Period                                                                          39: Boston Ave & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Background Traffic Volumes                                                                  9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR      NBL      NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      607        20        20     445      274     194
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0                5.0      5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                0.97               1.00     0.95     0.95
Frt                               1.00               1.00     1.00     0.94
Flt Protected                    0.95                0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3430               1770     3539     3319
Flt Permitted                    0.95                0.40     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                3430                742     3539     3319
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92
Growth Factor (vph)             120%       120%    120%     120%     120%     120%
Adj. Flow (vph)                   792         26       26     580      357      253
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 5         0        0        0      128       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             813          0       26     580      482        0
Turn Type                                          Perm
Protected Phases                      4                         2        6
Permitted Phases                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)            20.4               29.6     29.6    29.6
Effective Green, g (s)           20.4               29.6     29.6    29.6
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.34               0.49     0.49    0.49
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              1166                 366    1746     1637
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.24                       c0.16    0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.04
v/c Ratio                           0.70            0.07     0.33     0.29
Uniform Delay, d1                   17.1             8.0      9.2      9.0
Progression Factor                  1.00            1.09     1.11     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8             0.4      0.5      0.5
Delay (s)                           19.0             9.1     10.7      9.5
Level of Service                       B               A        B        A
Approach Delay (s)                  19.0                     10.6      9.5
Approach LOS                           B                        B        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            13.6        HCM Level of Service          B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.48
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            60.0        Sum of lost time (s)        10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  49.8%         ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                       Page 14
AM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        90     355       35        55    815       45        30       35        10    105     120     285
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5             5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    0.99                       1.00      0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.98      1.00            0.98    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3492              1770    3511                       1820      1583            1820    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.16    1.00               0.50    1.00                       0.81      1.00            0.82    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  298    3492               940    3511                       1506      1583            1519    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                     98     386       38        60    886       49         33      38        11     114     130     310
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0       10       0         0       5       0          0       0         7       0       0     170
Lane Group Flow (vph)               98     414        0        60    930        0          0      71         4       0     244     140
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)             29.0    29.0              30.0     28.0                      22.5      22.5             22.5    22.5
Effective Green, g (s)            29.0    29.0              30.0     28.0                      22.5      22.5             22.5    22.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.41    0.41               0.43    0.40                      0.32      0.32             0.32    0.32
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0     6.0                       5.5       5.5              5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                       3.0       3.0              3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 208    1447               438    1404                        484       509              488     509
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.03    0.12              0.01    c0.26
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.17                       0.05                              0.05      0.00            c0.16    0.09
v/c Ratio                         0.47    0.29               0.14    0.66                      0.15      0.01             0.50    0.28
Uniform Delay, d1                 14.3    13.6               12.2    17.1                      16.9      16.2             19.2    17.7
Progression Factor                0.85    0.56              1.00     1.00                      1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.7     0.5                0.1     2.5                       0.6       0.0              3.6     1.3
Delay (s)                         13.8     8.2               12.4    19.6                      17.6      16.2             22.8    19.0
Level of Service                     B       A                  B       B                         B         B                C       B
Approach Delay (s)                         9.2                       19.2                      17.4                       20.7
Approach LOS                                 A                          B                         B                          C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           17.1        HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     15.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 61.6%         ICU Level of Service                        B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                           2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           25    205       35       615    595       15         85      70      0      15       15      60
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0                     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               0.97   0.95                1.00    1.00                    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00                    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                    0.98    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3462              3433    3526               1770    1863                    1817    1583
Flt Permitted                        0.40   1.00               0.59    1.00               0.74    1.00                    0.83    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     745   3462              2134    3526               1372    1863                    1555    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        27    223       38       668    647       16         92      76       0      16      16      65
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      18       0         0       2       0          0       0       0       0       0      56
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  27    243        0       668    661        0         92      76       0       0      32       9
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm             Free   Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                          2            Free      6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)               22.0    22.0               50.0   50.0                10.0   10.0                    10.0     10.0
Effective Green, g (s)              22.0    22.0               50.0   50.0                10.0   10.0                    10.0     10.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.31    0.31               0.71   0.71                0.14   0.14                    0.14     0.14
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0               5.0    5.0                 5.0    5.0                     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                 3.0    3.0                     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   234    1088              1951    2519                 196    266                     222      226
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.07             c0.11   0.19                       0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.04                      c0.13                      c0.07                           0.02     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.12    0.22               0.34   0.26                0.47   0.29                    0.14     0.04
Uniform Delay, d1                   17.1    17.7                4.2    3.5                27.6   26.8                    26.3     25.9
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.41   0.46                1.00   1.00                    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.0     0.5                0.1    0.2                 1.8    0.6                     0.3      0.1
Delay (s)                           18.0    18.2                1.8    1.8                29.3   27.4                    26.6     25.9
Level of Service                       B       B                  A      A                   C      C                       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          18.1                       1.8                       28.5                    26.1
Approach LOS                                   B                         A                          C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              7.9        HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.36
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   48.2%         ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                          3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                          9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         120       10       5     265     595       25
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00     1.00    1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.85    1.00     1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                       0.95     1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583    1770     3539    3518
Flt Permitted                       0.95     1.00    0.40    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583      737    3539    3518
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                      130       11       5     288     647       27
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       9       0        0       3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                130        2       5     288     671        0
Turn Type                                   Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                       4                        2       6
Permitted Phases                               4        2
Actuated Green, G (s)             8.5        8.5     41.5    41.5     41.5
Effective Green, g (s)            8.5        8.5     41.5    41.5     41.5
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.14       0.14     0.69    0.69     0.69
Clearance Time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               251        224      510     2448    2433
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.07                         0.08   c0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.00     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.52    0.01     0.01    0.12     0.28
Uniform Delay, d1                   23.9    22.1      2.9     3.1      3.5
Progression Factor                  1.01    1.03     0.24    0.24     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8     0.0      0.0     0.1      0.3
Delay (s)                           25.9    22.8      0.7     0.9      3.8
Level of Service                       C       C        A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                  25.7                      0.9      3.8
Approach LOS                           C                        A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              5.8       HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.32
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             60.0       Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   32.2%        ICU Level of Service       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                                       4: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                              9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        60     215       40        75    265       15         120     750       15       40   1285      190
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900    1900      1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0     5.0         5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3539    1583      1770    1863    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.25    1.00     1.00     0.53    1.00     1.00        0.08    1.00     1.00    0.31    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  473    3539    1583       996    1863    1583          150    3539    1583      569    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92        0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                     65     234       43        82    288       16         130     815       16       43   1397      207
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0      35         0       0      13            0       0       7        0       0      86
Lane Group Flow (vph)               65     234        8        82    288        3         130     815        9       43   1397      121
Turn Type                       pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt            Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt            Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                4         8                8           2               2        6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)             27.6    22.7     22.7     28.8     23.3    23.3        76.3    67.2    67.2     67.3     62.7    62.7
Effective Green, g (s)            27.6    22.7     22.7     28.8     23.3    23.3        76.3    67.2    67.2     67.3     62.7    62.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.23    0.19     0.19      0.24    0.19    0.19        0.64    0.56    0.56      0.56    0.52    0.52
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0     5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0         5.0    5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0         3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 162     669      299      275      362     307         218    1982     886      365    1849      827
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.02    0.07              0.01    c0.15               c0.05    0.23             0.00    c0.39
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.08             0.01      0.06            0.00        0.33            0.01      0.06            0.08
v/c Ratio                         0.40    0.35     0.03     0.30     0.80    0.01        0.60    0.41    0.01     0.12     0.76    0.15
Uniform Delay, d1                 37.7    42.2     39.7     36.4     46.1    39.0        18.6    15.1    11.7     12.1     22.6    14.8
Progression Factor                1.00    1.00     1.00     0.92     0.94    0.95        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.6     0.3      0.0       0.6    11.3     0.0         4.3     0.6     0.0       0.1     2.9     0.4
Delay (s)                         39.3    42.6     39.7      34.1    54.4    37.3        22.9    15.7    11.7      12.2    25.5    15.2
Level of Service                     D       D        D         C       D       D           C       B       B         B       C       B
Approach Delay (s)                        41.6                       49.4                        16.6                      23.9
Approach LOS                                 D                          D                           B                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           26.6        HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.73
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          120.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     20.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 76.1%         ICU Level of Service                       D
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                                          5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                            5/28/2009



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        65       95      75       260    430       80          95    500     120     110     980     150
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.5               4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                1.00     0.95               1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                               1.00     0.93              1.00    0.98                1.00    0.97            1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                    0.95     1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3304              1770    3456                1770    3437            1770    3469
Flt Permitted                    0.39     1.00               0.58    1.00                0.21    1.00            0.23    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 732     3304              1081    3456                  398   3437              433   3469
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92        0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                     71     103       82       283    467       87        103     543    130      120    1065     163
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0       60       0         0      21       0           0      30      0        0      17       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               71     125        0       283    533        0        103     643       0     120    1211        0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)            22.2     19.0               26.8   20.8                22.7     21.2           22.0     22.0
Effective Green, g (s)           22.2     19.0               26.8   20.8                22.7     21.2           22.0     22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.32    0.27               0.38   0.30                 0.32    0.30            0.31    0.31
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0     5.5                4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                280      897                473   1027                 207    1041             228    1090
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.01     0.04              c0.05   0.15                 0.03   c0.19            0.04   c0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.07                       c0.18                        0.13                    0.13
v/c Ratio                        0.25     0.14               0.60   0.52                 0.50    0.62            0.53    1.11
Uniform Delay, d1                17.0     19.3               16.4   20.4                 28.0    20.9            18.5    24.0
Progression Factor               1.00     1.00               1.07   1.05                0.95     1.02            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.5     0.3                2.0    1.8                  1.8     2.7             2.2    63.0
Delay (s)                         17.5    19.6               19.6   23.3                 28.5    24.1            20.7    87.0
Level of Service                     B       B                  B      C                    C       C               C       F
Approach Delay (s)                        19.0                      22.0                         24.7                    81.1
Approach LOS                                 B                         C                            C                       F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           47.2        HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.77
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           70.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    13.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 77.4%         ICU Level of Service                      D
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                          6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                            9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           80      75      70       60      40      15         65    625       30      25   1210      60
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.93             1.00    0.96               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1728             1770    1787               1770    3539    1583    1770    3514
Flt Permitted                        0.72   1.00              0.65    1.00               0.16    1.00    1.00    0.39    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1338    1728             1209    1787                 291   3539    1583      732   3514
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        87      82      76       65      43      16         71     679      33      27   1315       65
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      35       0        0      13       0          0       0      11       0       4       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  87    123        0       65      46       0         71    679       22      27   1376        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               11.4     11.4            11.4    11.4               47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6     47.6
Effective Green, g (s)              11.4     11.4            11.4    11.4               47.6    47.6    47.6    47.6     47.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.16     0.16            0.16    0.16               0.68    0.68    0.68    0.68     0.68
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   218      281             197     291                198    2407    1076     498    2390
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.07                    0.03                        0.19                   c0.39
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.07                     0.05                       0.24            0.01    0.04
v/c Ratio                           0.40     0.44            0.33    0.16               0.36    0.28    0.02    0.05     0.58
Uniform Delay, d1                   26.2     26.4            25.9    25.2                4.7     4.4     3.6     3.7      5.9
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00    0.30     0.45
Incremental Delay, d2                1.2      1.1             1.0     0.3                5.0     0.3     0.0     0.1      0.7
Delay (s)                           27.4     27.5            26.9    25.4                9.7     4.7     3.7     1.3      3.3
Level of Service                       C        C               C       C                  A       A       A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                           27.5                    26.2                        5.1                      3.3
Approach LOS                                    C                       C                          A                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              7.3       HCM Level of Service                      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.55
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             70.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   78.7%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                                       7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/12/2008



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL       SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        45      20      680     15      30     1260
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                                0%               0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                49       22     739      16     33     1370
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         TWLTL                   TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                     2                       2
Upstream signal (ft)                                 1227                     875
pX, platoon unblocked               0.85     0.92                   0.92
vC, conflicting volume              1489     370                    755
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                739
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                750
vCu, unblocked vol                   804     143                     562
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                       89      97                      96
cM capacity (veh/h)                  440     809                     926
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2   SB 3
Volume Total                       49          22     370     370     16       33       685    685
Volume Left                        49           0       0       0      0       33         0      0
Volume Right                        0          22       0       0     16        0         0      0
cSH                               440         809    1700    1700   1700      926      1700   1700
Volume to Capacity               0.11        0.03    0.22    0.22   0.01     0.04      0.40   0.40
Queue Length 95th (ft)              9           2       0       0      0        3         0      0
Control Delay (s)                14.2         9.6     0.0     0.0    0.0      9.0       0.0    0.0
Lane LOS                            B           A                               A
Approach Delay (s)               12.8                  0.0                    0.2
Approach LOS                        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          0.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   44.8%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                                 8: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                           9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        10     710       25        55   1730       90         15       10     20      25      10      0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900    1900       1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2     7.2        6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                0.97     0.91              1.00    0.91     1.00      0.97     0.95            0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00     0.90           1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95     1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00       0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     5060              1770    5085    1583       3433     3185           3433    3539
Flt Permitted                    0.08     1.00               0.33    1.00    1.00       0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 294     5060               613    5085    1583       3433     3185           3433    3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                     11     772       27        60   1880       98         16       11     22      27      11      0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        3       0         0       0      47          0       15      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               11     796        0        60   1880       51         16       18      0      27      11      0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt            Perm        Prot                    Prot           Free
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8               8                                              Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            50.2      50.2             58.8     55.6    55.6       1.7     38.3             3.0   36.7
Effective Green, g (s)           50.2      50.2             58.8     55.6    55.6       1.7     38.3             3.0   36.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.42     0.42              0.49    0.46    0.46      0.01     0.32            0.02   0.31
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2     7.2       6.9      6.9             4.0    6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0      3.0             3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                149     2117               362    2356      733        49    1017               86   1082
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.00     c0.16             0.01    c0.37              0.00    c0.01           c0.01   0.00
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.03                        0.07            0.03
v/c Ratio                        0.07      0.38              0.17    0.80    0.07      0.33     0.02            0.31   0.01
Uniform Delay, d1                26.0      24.1              18.0    27.4    17.9      58.6     28.0            57.5   29.0
Progression Factor               1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00            0.95   1.02
Incremental Delay, d2              0.2      0.5               0.2     2.9     0.2       3.9      0.0             2.0    0.0
Delay (s)                         26.2     24.6              18.2    30.3    18.0      62.5     28.0            56.8   29.6
Level of Service                     C        C                 B       C       B         E        C               E      C
Approach Delay (s)                         24.6                      29.4                       39.3                   48.9
Approach LOS                                  C                         C                          D                      D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           28.5        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.46
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          120.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    18.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 59.2%         ICU Level of Service                       B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 8
AM Peak Period                                                                                  9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                            9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         150     395     125      455    1445       90       165     425     115     105     715     195
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9        4.0     6.3     6.3     4.0     6.3     6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.91     1.00    0.97    0.91     1.00      0.97    0.95     1.00   0.97    0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    5085    1583     3433    5085    1583       3433    3539    1583    3433    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    5085    1583     3433    5085    1583       3433    3539    1583    3433    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                      163     429     136      495    1571       98       179     462     125     114     777     212
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0    105         0       0      64          0       0      91       0       0     102
Lane Group Flow (vph)                163     429       31     495    1571       34       179     462       34    114     777     110
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm        Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                   5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8                         2                        6
Actuated Green, G (s)             6.5       20.5     20.5    19.0     31.1    31.1        7.0   24.7    24.7     5.6     23.3    23.3
Effective Green, g (s)            6.5       20.5     20.5    19.0     31.1    31.1        7.0   24.7    24.7     5.6     23.3    23.3
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.07       0.23     0.23    0.21     0.35    0.35       0.08   0.27    0.27    0.06     0.26    0.26
Clearance Time (s)                5.9        5.9      5.9     4.0      5.9     5.9        4.0    6.3     6.3     4.0      6.3     6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               248        1158     361     725     1757     547        267    971     434     214      916     410
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.05       0.08             0.14    c0.31              c0.05   0.13            0.03    c0.22
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.02                     0.02                      0.02                     0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.66    0.37     0.09    0.68     0.89    0.06       0.67   0.48    0.08    0.53     0.85    0.27
Uniform Delay, d1                   40.7    29.3     27.4    32.7     27.9    19.7       40.4   27.2    24.2    40.9     31.7    26.6
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                6.2     0.9      0.5     2.7      7.5     0.2        6.5    1.7     0.4     2.5      9.6     1.6
Delay (s)                           46.8    30.2     27.8    35.4     35.4    19.9       46.8   28.9    24.6    43.5     41.3    28.2
Level of Service                       D       C        C       D        D       B          D      C       C       D        D       C
Approach Delay (s)                          33.5                      34.7                      32.4                     39.0
Approach LOS                                   C                         C                         C                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             35.1       HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.83
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             90.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   22.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   75.8%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 9
AM Peak Period                                                                                    10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           15    265       15      210     305       35         45    250      115      55    600       65
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0     5.0        5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00     1.00     0.97    1.00     1.00       1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00   0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00     1.00       0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95   1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1863    1583      3433    1863    1583       1770    3539    1583    1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                        0.56   1.00     1.00     0.34    1.00     1.00       0.36   1.00     1.00    0.58   1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1044    1863    1583      1211    1863    1583         663   3539    1583    1088    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        16    288       16      228     332       38         49    272      125      60    652       71
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      12         0       0      22          0       0      74       0       0      42
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  16    288        4      228     332       16         49    272       51      60    652       29
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     pm+pt            Perm       Perm            Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                4         8                8         2               2       6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)               13.4     13.4    13.4     22.4     22.4    22.4      22.1    22.1    22.1    22.1     22.1    22.1
Effective Green, g (s)              13.4     13.4    13.4     22.4     22.4    22.4      22.1    22.1    22.1    22.1     22.1    22.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.25     0.25    0.25      0.41    0.41    0.41      0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41     0.41    0.41
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   257      458     389      661      766     651       269    1435     642     441    1435      642
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.15              0.03   c0.18                       0.08                   c0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.02             0.00      0.12            0.01      0.07            0.03    0.06             0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.06     0.63    0.01     0.34     0.43    0.02      0.18    0.19    0.08    0.14     0.45    0.04
Uniform Delay, d1                   15.7     18.3    15.5     10.8     11.5     9.5      10.4    10.4     9.9    10.2     11.8     9.8
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      2.7     0.0       0.3     0.4     0.0       1.5     0.3     0.2     0.6      1.0     0.1
Delay (s)                           15.8     21.0    15.5      11.1    11.9     9.6      11.9    10.7    10.2    10.8     12.8     9.9
Level of Service                       B        C       B         B       B       A         B       B       B       B        B       A
Approach Delay (s)                           20.5                      11.4                      10.7                     12.4
Approach LOS                                    C                         B                         B                        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             13.0        HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.54
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             54.5        Sum of lost time (s)                   15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   56.5%         ICU Level of Service                      B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 10
AM Peak Period                                                                               11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       35     295      10       5     220        5        5      10     5      5       20      20
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92   0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                38    321      11        5    239        5         5     11      5      5      22       22
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              245                     332                       685    658    326    660      660     242
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  245                     332                       685    658    326    660      660     242
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                        3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       97                    100                        98     97     99     98       94      97
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1322                   1228                       328    372    715    356      370     797
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          38    332       5      245     22       49
Volume Left                           38      0       5        0      5        5
Volume Right                           0     11       0        5      5       22
cSH                                 1322   1700   1228     1700     407      483
Volume to Capacity                  0.03   0.20    0.00     0.14   0.05     0.10
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      0       0        0      4        8
Control Delay (s)                    7.8    0.0     7.9      0.0   14.3     13.3
Lane LOS                               A              A               B        B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.8            0.2            14.3     13.3
Approach LOS                                                          B        B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        1.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 32.8%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 11
AM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           15    320       60       85    190       20         55    185     125       25    360       30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98             1.00    0.99               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1819             1770    1836               1770    1863    1583    1770    1841
Flt Permitted                        0.62   1.00              0.38    1.00               0.46    1.00    1.00    0.63    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1147    1819               704   1836                 852   1863    1583    1177    1841
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        16    348       65       92    207       22         60    201     136       27     391       33
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      14       0        0       8       0          0       0      75       0       6        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  16    399        0       92    221        0         60    201       61      27    418         0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                        6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               14.3     14.3            14.3    14.3               20.6    20.6    20.6    20.6     20.6
Effective Green, g (s)              14.3     14.3            14.3    14.3               20.6    20.6    20.6    20.6     20.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.31     0.31            0.31    0.31               0.45    0.45    0.45    0.45     0.45
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5             5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5      5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0             3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   357      567             219     572                382     836     710     528      826
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.22                    0.12                       0.11                    c0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                     0.13                       0.07            0.04    0.02
v/c Ratio                           0.04     0.70            0.42    0.39               0.16    0.24    0.09    0.05     0.51
Uniform Delay, d1                   11.0     13.9            12.5    12.4                7.5     7.8     7.3     7.1      9.0
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      3.9             1.3     0.4                0.9     0.7     0.2     0.2      2.2
Delay (s)                           11.1     17.9            13.8    12.8                8.4     8.5     7.5     7.3     11.2
Level of Service                       B        B               B       B                  A       A       A       A        B
Approach Delay (s)                           17.6                    13.1                        8.1                     11.0
Approach LOS                                    B                       B                          A                        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             12.5       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.59
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             45.9       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   77.9%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
AM Peak Period                                                                                   13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                              9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                            5      65        5     125       70      75          5     810     165      210   2450      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900      1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      4.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00               1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     0.97    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.99              1.00    0.92               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1844              1770    1718               1770    3539    1583     3433    3533
Flt Permitted                        0.53   1.00               0.71    1.00               0.06    1.00    1.00     0.27    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     991   1844              1318    1718                 113   3539    1583       975   3533
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                         5      71        5      136      76      82          5     880     179      228   2663       33
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       3        0        0      41       0          0       0      66        0       1       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   5      73        0     136     117        0          5    880     113      228    2695        0
Turn Type                           Perm                      Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                         8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               16.1    16.1               16.1   16.1               66.0    66.0    66.0     77.4     77.4
Effective Green, g (s)              16.1    16.1               16.1   16.1               66.0    66.0    66.0     77.4     77.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.15    0.15               0.15   0.15               0.63    0.63    0.63      0.74    0.74
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                5.5    5.5                6.0      6.0    6.0       4.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   152     283                202    263                 71    2225     995      892    2604
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.04                      0.07                        0.25             0.02   c0.76
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01                      c0.10                      0.04            0.07      0.17
v/c Ratio                           0.03    0.26               0.67   0.44               0.07    0.40    0.11      0.26    1.04
Uniform Delay, d1                   37.8    39.2               42.0   40.4                7.6     9.6     7.8       4.7    13.8
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00   1.00               1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     0.5                8.5    1.2                1.9     0.5     0.2       0.2    27.5
Delay (s)                           37.9    39.7               50.5   41.6                9.5    10.2     8.0       4.8    41.3
Level of Service                       D       D                  D      D                  A       B       A         A       D
Approach Delay (s)                          39.6                      45.7                        9.8                      38.5
Approach LOS                                   D                         D                          A                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              32.0       HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.97
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             105.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   105.2%        ICU Level of Service                     G
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 13
AM Peak Period                                                                         39: Boston Ave & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                            9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         215      20      50       35    310      290
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900   1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97            1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  0.99           1.00     1.00    0.93
Flt Protected                       0.96            0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3411           1770     3539    3283
Flt Permitted                       0.96            0.40     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3411             753    3539    3283
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                      234      22      54       38    337     315
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   19      0       0        0    102        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                237       0      54       38    550        0
Turn Type                                          Perm
Protected Phases                       4                       2       6
Permitted Phases                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)             9.5               40.5    40.5     40.5
Effective Green, g (s)            9.5               40.5    40.5     40.5
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.16               0.68    0.68     0.68
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               540                508     2389    2216
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.07                       0.01    c0.17
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.44            0.11    0.02     0.25
Uniform Delay, d1                   22.8             3.4     3.2      3.8
Progression Factor                  1.47            1.48    1.42     1.46
Incremental Delay, d2                0.6             0.4     0.0      0.3
Delay (s)                           34.1             5.5     4.6      5.8
Level of Service                       C               A       A        A
Approach Delay (s)                  34.1                     5.1      5.8
Approach LOS                           C                       A        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            13.0       HCM Level of Service          B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.28
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            60.0       Sum of lost time (s)        10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  40.5%        ICU Level of Service           A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 14
PM Peak Period                                                                                         1: 3rd Ave. & Lashley St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       435     955       35        35    595      110        45     180         15     65       85    145
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900      1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      6.0               4.0     6.0                        5.5       5.5             5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95              1.00    0.95                        1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00
Frt                               1.00     0.99              1.00    0.98                       1.00      0.85            1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                       0.99      1.00            0.98    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3520              1770    3456                       1844      1583            1823    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.24    1.00               0.16    1.00                       0.90      1.00            0.56    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  439    3520               292    3456                       1678      1583            1041    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                    473    1038       38        38    647     120          49    196         16      71      92    158
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        2       0         0      13       0          0       0        12       0       0      91
Lane Group Flow (vph)             473     1074        0        38    754        0          0    245          4       0    163       67
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt                       Perm              Perm    Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                          2                         6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8                         2                 2       6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)             69.1    67.1              30.4     30.4                      27.5      27.5             27.5    27.5
Effective Green, g (s)            69.1    67.1              30.4     30.4                      27.5      27.5             27.5    27.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.60    0.58               0.26    0.26                      0.24      0.24             0.24    0.24
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0     6.0                4.0     6.0                       5.5       5.5              5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0                       3.0       3.0              3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 745    2054               140      914                      401       379              249      379
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.23    0.31              0.01    c0.22
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.15                       0.06                              0.15      0.00            c0.16    0.04
v/c Ratio                         0.63    0.52               0.27    0.82                      0.61      0.01             0.65    0.18
Uniform Delay, d1                 21.4    14.4               33.6    39.8                      39.0      33.4             39.5    34.8
Progression Factor                0.79    0.89              1.00     1.00                      1.00      1.00             1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.8     1.0                1.1     8.4                       6.8       0.0             12.7     1.0
Delay (s)                         18.7    13.7               34.6    48.2                      45.8      33.4             52.1    35.8
Level of Service                     B       B                  C       D                         D         C                D       D
Approach Delay (s)                        15.2                       47.5                      45.0                       44.1
Approach LOS                                 B                          D                         D                          D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           29.9        HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.68
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          115.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     11.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 82.5%         ICU Level of Service                        E
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                           2: 3rd Ave. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           80    425       90       570    275       25         95    365       0      30       15      40
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0                     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   0.95               0.97   0.95                1.00    1.00                    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.97              1.00    0.99               1.00    1.00                    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00                    0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3446              3433    3495               1770    1863                    1802    1583
Flt Permitted                        0.55   1.00               0.38    1.00               0.73    1.00                    0.48    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1033    3446              1363    3495               1351    1863                      892   1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        87    462       98       620    299       27       103     397        0      33      16      43
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      12       0         0       4       0          0       0       0       0       0      31
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  87    548        0       620    322        0       103     397        0       0      49      12
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       Perm             Free   Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2             Free      6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)               49.0    49.0               74.0   74.0               31.0     31.0                   31.0     31.0
Effective Green, g (s)              49.0    49.0               74.0   74.0               31.0     31.0                   31.0     31.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.43    0.43               0.64   0.64               0.27     0.27                   0.27     0.27
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0               5.0    5.0                5.0      5.0                    5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                3.0      3.0                    3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   440    1468              1237    2249                364      502                    240      427
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.16             c0.09   0.09                       c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.08                      c0.24                      0.08                            0.05     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.20    0.37               0.50   0.14               0.28     0.79                   0.20     0.03
Uniform Delay, d1                   20.7    22.5               17.0    8.1               33.2     39.0                   32.5     30.9
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               0.30   0.20               1.00     1.00                   1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.0     0.7                0.3    0.1                0.4      8.3                    0.4      0.0
Delay (s)                           21.7    23.2                5.3    1.7               33.6     47.3                   32.9     30.9
Level of Service                       C       C                  A      A                  C        D                      C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          23.0                       4.0                        44.5                   32.0
Approach LOS                                   C                         A                           D                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             20.1        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.58
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            115.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   70.1%         ICU Level of Service                      C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                          3: 1st Ave. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                          9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         160       35        5   1480     640       55
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583     1770    3539    3322
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     0.35    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583      660    3539    3322
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                      174       38        5   1609     696       60
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      32        0       0       3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                174        6        5   1609     753        0
Parking (#/hr)                                                           0
Turn Type                                   Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                       4                        2       6
Permitted Phases                               4        2
Actuated Green, G (s)            15.5       15.5     79.0     79.0   79.0
Effective Green, g (s)           15.5       15.5     79.0     79.0   79.0
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.15       0.15     0.76     0.76   0.76
Clearance Time (s)                5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0    5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                263        235      499    2675    2511
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.10                        c0.45   0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.00     0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.66    0.02     0.01     0.60   0.30
Uniform Delay, d1                   42.0    38.0      3.1      5.7    4.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                6.1     0.0      0.0      1.0    0.3
Delay (s)                           48.1    38.1      3.2      6.7    4.3
Level of Service                       D       D        A        A      A
Approach Delay (s)                  46.3                       6.7    4.3
Approach LOS                           D                         A      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              9.3       HCM Level of Service      A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            104.5       Sum of lost time (s)    10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   58.1%        ICU Level of Service       B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                                 4: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                           9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       390    1770       35       135    865     140          35       10     75    135     140       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900     1900    1900    1900       1900     1900    1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      7.2               4.0     7.2     7.2        6.9      6.9            4.0     6.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97    0.91               1.00   0.91     1.00      0.97     0.95            0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00     0.87           1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00       0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     5071              1770    5085    1583       3433     3071           3433    3539
Flt Permitted                     0.21    1.00               0.09    1.00    1.00       0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  748    5071                164   5085    1583       3433     3071           3433    3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                    424    1924       38       147    940     152          38       11     82    147     152       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        2       0         0       0      94          0       61      0       0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             424     1960        0      147     940       58         38       32      0    147     152       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                      pm+pt            Perm        Prot                    Prot           Free
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                   5       2               1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                          8               8                                              Free
Actuated Green, G (s)             62.3     50.3              53.5   45.5     45.5        3.5    30.2             9.4    33.2
Effective Green, g (s)            62.3     50.3              53.5   45.5     45.5        3.5    30.2             9.4    33.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.52     0.42              0.45   0.38     0.38       0.03    0.25            0.08    0.28
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      7.2               4.0    7.2      7.2        6.9     6.9             4.0     6.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 675    2126                180   1928      600       100     773             269     979
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.07    c0.39             c0.05   0.18               c0.01    0.01           c0.04   c0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.26                       0.31            0.04
v/c Ratio                         0.63     0.92              0.82   0.49     0.10       0.38    0.04            0.55    0.16
Uniform Delay, d1                 17.3     33.0              26.4   28.4     24.0       57.2    33.9            53.2    32.8
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00            1.01    0.94
Incremental Delay, d2              1.8      8.1              24.0    0.9      0.3        2.4     0.1             2.0     0.3
Delay (s)                         19.1     41.1              50.4   29.3     24.3       59.6    34.0            55.6    31.0
Level of Service                     B        D                 D      C        C          E       C               E       C
Approach Delay (s)                         37.2                     31.2                        41.5                    43.1
Approach LOS                                  D                        C                           D                       D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           35.9        HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          120.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    14.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 72.5%         ICU Level of Service                      C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                                           5: 3rd Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             5/28/2009



Movement                            EBL   EBT       EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      180      165        45       320    220      140        105    1545     105     200    1015     122
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.5                4.0     5.5                 4.0     5.5             4.0     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                1.00     0.95                1.00   0.95                 1.00    0.95            1.00    0.95
Frt                               1.00     0.97               1.00    0.94                1.00    0.99            1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                    0.95     1.00                0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3425               1770    3333                1770    3505            1770    3482
Flt Permitted                    0.40     1.00                0.42    1.00                0.18    1.00            0.08    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                 753     3425                 788   3333                  343   3505              152   3482
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92     0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92        0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                   196      179        49       348    239     152         114    1679    114      217    1103     133
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0       21        0         0      85       0           0       4      0        0       8       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             196      207         0      348     306        0        114    1789       0     217    1228        0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                       pm+pt                       pm+pt                   pm+pt
Protected Phases                     7       4                   3      8                    5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                           8                           2                       6
Actuated Green, G (s)            26.5     15.5                35.5   19.5                57.4     55.9            62.5   62.5
Effective Green, g (s)           26.5     15.5                35.5   19.5                57.4     55.9            62.5   62.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.22    0.13                0.30   0.16                 0.48    0.47            0.52   0.52
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0     5.5                 4.0    5.5                  4.0     5.5             4.0    5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0                 3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0             3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                260      442                 364    542                 247    1633              263   1814
v/s Ratio Prot                   0.07     0.06               c0.13   0.09                 0.03   c0.51           c0.09   0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.10                        c0.16                        0.19                    0.34
v/c Ratio                        0.75     0.47                0.96   0.57                 0.46    1.10            0.83   0.68
Uniform Delay, d1                41.2     48.4                38.9   46.3                 29.6    32.0            33.2   21.3
Progression Factor               1.00     1.00                1.00   1.00                0.81     0.78            1.00   1.00
Incremental Delay, d2            11.7      3.5                35.4    4.2                  1.1    51.6            18.6    2.1
Delay (s)                         52.9    52.0                74.4   50.6                 25.2    76.6            51.8   23.3
Level of Service                     D       D                   E      D                    C       E               D      C
Approach Delay (s)                        52.4                       61.8                         73.5                   27.6
Approach LOS                                 D                          E                            E                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            54.9        HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.99
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           120.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    13.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 100.7%         ICU Level of Service                      G
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                        Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                            6: 2nd Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                              9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         120     225      105        60      50      20          90   1385       35      15   1285      90
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.0     5.5                 5.0     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00               1.00   1.00                 1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.95              1.00    0.96                1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00                0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1774              1770    1782                1770    3539    1583    1770    3504
Flt Permitted                        0.71   1.00               0.26    1.00                0.06    1.00    1.00    0.08    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1318    1774                486   1782                  117   3539    1583      143   3504
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92        0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                      130     245     114         65      54      22          98   1505       38      16   1397       98
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      15       0         0      13       0           0       0      14       0       4       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                130     344        0        65      63       0          98   1505       24      16   1491        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt                       pm+pt            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                    5      2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                           2              2       6
Actuated Green, G (s)               27.9     27.9              37.5   37.0                72.5     72.0   72.0    58.0     58.0
Effective Green, g (s)              27.9     27.9              37.5   37.0                72.5     72.0   72.0    58.0     58.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.23     0.23              0.31   0.31                 0.60    0.60   0.60    0.48     0.48
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.5               5.0    5.5                  5.0     5.5    5.5     5.5      5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0    3.0                  3.0     3.0    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   306      412               196    549                 195    2123     950      69    1694
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.19             c0.01   0.04                 0.04   c0.43                   c0.43
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.10                       0.09                        0.27           0.02    0.11
v/c Ratio                           0.42     0.83              0.33   0.11                 0.50    0.71   0.03    0.23     0.88
Uniform Delay, d1                   39.2     43.8              44.5   29.8                 42.1    16.7    9.7    18.0     27.9
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00     1.00   1.00    0.58     0.62
Incremental Delay, d2                1.0     13.5               1.0    0.1                  2.0     2.0    0.0     6.5      5.9
Delay (s)                           40.2     57.4              45.5   29.8                 44.1    18.7    9.8    17.0     23.1
Level of Service                       D        E                 D      C                    D       B      A       B        C
Approach Delay (s)                           52.8                     37.0                         20.0                    23.1
Approach LOS                                    D                        D                            C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             26.1        HCM Level of Service                       C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.77
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            120.0        Sum of lost time (s)                    11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   86.1%         ICU Level of Service                       E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                                       7: 1st Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                     9/12/2008



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL       SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       130      60     1725     95      90     1335
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                                0%               0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)               141       65    1875    103      98     1451
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         TWLTL                   TWLTL
Median storage veh)                                     2                       2
Upstream signal (ft)                                 1227                     875
pX, platoon unblocked               0.77     0.58                   0.58
vC, conflicting volume              2796     938                    1978
vC1, stage 1 conf vol               1875
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                921
vCu, unblocked vol                   544        0                   1245
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                    4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)                       5.8
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                       23      90                      70
cM capacity (veh/h)                  185     631                     323
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2   SB 3
Volume Total                     141           65     938     938    103       98       726    726
Volume Left                      141            0       0       0      0       98         0      0
Volume Right                        0          65       0       0    103        0         0      0
cSH                               185         631    1700    1700   1700      323      1700   1700
Volume to Capacity               0.77        0.10    0.55    0.55   0.06     0.30      0.43   0.43
Queue Length 95th (ft)           126            9       0       0      0       31         0      0
Control Delay (s)                69.1        11.4     0.0     0.0    0.0     20.9       0.0    0.0
Lane LOS                            F           B                               C
Approach Delay (s)               50.9                  0.0                    1.3
Approach LOS                        F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          3.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   69.9%       ICU Level of Service                  C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                                       8: Boston Ave. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                              9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       210     830     125        160    345       35         165    1530       45       95   1330     220
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900    1900      1900    1900    1900        1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0     5.0         5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00    0.95     1.00      1.00   1.00     1.00        1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95     1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00    0.85        1.00     1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00     1.00      0.95   1.00     1.00        0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     3539    1583      1770    1863    1583        1770     3539    1583     1770    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.18    1.00     1.00      0.17   1.00     1.00        0.08    1.00     1.00    0.08    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  329    3539    1583        310   1863    1583          141    3539    1583      152    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00        1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Adj. Flow (vph)                    210     830     125        160    345       35         165    1530       45       95   1330      220
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0      76         0       0      27            0       0      20        0       0     113
Lane Group Flow (vph)             210      830       49       160    345        8         165    1530       25       95   1330     107
Turn Type                       pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt            Perm       pm+pt             Perm    pm+pt            Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                  3      8                     5      2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                     4                4         8                8           2               2        6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)             36.0     27.0    27.0      30.0   24.0     24.0        61.0     53.0   53.0     53.0    49.0     49.0
Effective Green, g (s)            36.0     27.0    27.0      30.0   24.0     24.0        61.0     53.0   53.0     53.0    49.0     49.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.33     0.25    0.25      0.27   0.22     0.22        0.55     0.48   0.48      0.48   0.45     0.45
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0    5.0       5.0         5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0    5.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0    3.0      3.0         3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0    3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 226      869     389       164    406      345         197    1705     763      132    1576      705
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.08    c0.23              0.05   0.19                c0.06    c0.43            0.03    0.38
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.23             0.03      0.21            0.00        0.41            0.02      0.32            0.07
v/c Ratio                         0.93     0.96    0.13      0.98   0.85     0.02        0.84     0.90   0.03     0.72    0.84     0.15
Uniform Delay, d1                 31.7     40.9    32.3      37.6   41.3     33.8        25.6     26.0   15.0     23.0    27.1     18.1
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00   1.00     1.00        1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2             40.3     20.3     0.1      62.5   15.2      0.0        25.4      7.9    0.1     17.1     5.7      0.5
Delay (s)                         72.0     61.2    32.5     100.0   56.5     33.8        51.0     33.9   15.1     40.1    32.8     18.6
Level of Service                     E        E       C         F      E        C           D        C      B         D      C        B
Approach Delay (s)                         60.0                     67.9                          35.0                    31.3
Approach LOS                                  E                        E                             D                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           43.0        HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.96
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                          110.0        Sum of lost time (s)                     20.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 96.0%         ICU Level of Service                        F
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 8
PM Peak Period                                                                                  9: Ken Pratt Blvd. & Main St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                            9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         220    1195     155      175     665     135        345     845     320     175     795     265
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.9     5.9     5.9      4.0     5.9     5.9        4.0     6.3     6.3     4.0     6.3     6.3
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97    0.91     1.00    0.97    0.91     1.00      0.97    0.95     1.00   0.97    0.95     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3433    5085    1583     3433    5085    1583       3433    3539    1583    3433    3539    1583
Flt Permitted                       0.95    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00     1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3433    5085    1583     3433    5085    1583       3433    3539    1583    3433    3539    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                      239    1299     168      190     723     147        375     918     348     190     864     288
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0    123         0       0     114          0       0     144       0       0     126
Lane Group Flow (vph)                239    1299       45     190     723       33       375     918     204     190     864     162
Turn Type                            Prot           Perm      Prot           Perm        Prot           Perm     Prot           Perm
Protected Phases                        7      4                 3      8                   5      2                1      6
Permitted Phases                                        4                        8                         2                        6
Actuated Green, G (s)                9.7     24.1    24.1     8.0     20.5    20.5       11.9   30.7    30.7     7.0     25.8    25.8
Effective Green, g (s)               9.7     24.1    24.1     8.0     20.5    20.5       11.9   30.7    30.7     7.0     25.8    25.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.11     0.27    0.27    0.09     0.23    0.23       0.13   0.34    0.34    0.08     0.29    0.29
Clearance Time (s)                   5.9      5.9     5.9     4.0      5.9     5.9        4.0    6.3     6.3     4.0      6.3     6.3
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  370     1362     424     305     1158     361        454    1207    540     267     1015     454
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.07    c0.26            0.06    c0.14              c0.11   0.26            0.06    c0.24
v/s Ratio Perm                                       0.03                     0.02                      0.13                     0.10
v/c Ratio                           0.65     0.95    0.11    0.62     0.62    0.09       0.83   0.76    0.38    0.71     0.85    0.36
Uniform Delay, d1                   38.5     32.4    24.8    39.5     31.3    27.4       38.0   26.4    22.4    40.5     30.3    25.5
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                3.8     15.6     0.5     3.9      2.5     0.5       11.7    4.5     2.0     8.6      9.0     2.2
Delay (s)                           42.4     48.0    25.3    43.5     33.8    27.9       49.7   30.9    24.4    49.2     39.2    27.7
Level of Service                       D        D       C       D        C       C          D      C       C       D        D       C
Approach Delay (s)                           45.0                     34.7                      33.8                     38.2
Approach LOS                                    D                        C                         C                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             38.3       HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.82
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             90.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   16.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   76.7%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 9
PM Peak Period                                                                                    10: Boston Ave. & Terry St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                              9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           65    930       60       225    440       85         30    560      395      80    585        30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900      1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0     5.0        5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00     1.00      0.97   1.00     1.00       1.00   0.95     1.00    1.00   0.95      1.00
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00     1.00      0.95   1.00     1.00       0.95   1.00     1.00    0.95   1.00      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1863    1583      3433    1863    1583       1770    3539    1583    1770    3539     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.49   1.00     1.00      0.08   1.00     1.00       0.20   1.00     1.00    0.21   1.00      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     913   1863    1583        273   1863    1583         373   3539    1583      387   3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        71   1011       65       245    478       92         33    609      429      87    636        33
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      17         0       0       9          0       0     168       0       0       26
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  71   1011       48       245    478       83         33    609     261       87    636         7
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     pm+pt            Perm       Perm            Perm    Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                               4                  3      8                          2                        6
Permitted Phases                       4                4         8               8         2                2       6                 6
Actuated Green, G (s)               48.0     48.0    48.0      59.9   59.9     59.9      20.0    20.0    20.0     20.0    20.0     20.0
Effective Green, g (s)              48.0     48.0    48.0      59.9   59.9     59.9      20.0    20.0    20.0     20.0    20.0     20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.53     0.53    0.53      0.67   0.67     0.67      0.22    0.22    0.22     0.22    0.22     0.22
Clearance Time (s)                   5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0    5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0    3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   487      995     845       424   1241     1055        83     787     352       86     787      352
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.54             c0.04   0.26                       0.17                     0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.08             0.03      0.34            0.05      0.09            0.16    c0.22             0.00
v/c Ratio                           0.15     1.02    0.06      0.58   0.39     0.08      0.40    0.77    0.74     1.01    0.81     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                   10.6     21.0    10.1      19.7    6.7      5.3      29.8    32.8    32.5     35.0    33.1     27.3
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00   1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     32.6     0.0       1.9    0.2      0.0      13.6     7.3    13.2    100.3     8.7      0.1
Delay (s)                           10.7     53.6    10.1      21.6    6.9      5.3      43.4    40.1    45.7    135.2    41.9     27.4
Level of Service                       B        D       B         C      A        A         D       D       D        F       D        C
Approach Delay (s)                           48.4                     11.2                       42.5                     52.0
Approach LOS                                    D                        B                          D                        D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             39.4        HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.98
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             89.9        Sum of lost time (s)                   15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   91.9%         ICU Level of Service                      F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 10
PM Peak Period                                                                               11: Boston Ave. & Price Rd.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                       9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       20     845      10       5     425        5        5      15     5      5        5      20
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92   0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                22    918      11        5    462        5         5     16      5      5       5       22
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              467                     929                       1465   1446   924    1451   1448      465
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  467                     929                       1465   1446   924    1451   1448      465
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1    6.5       6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                     2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       98                     99                        94     87     98     94       96      96
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1094                    736                        97    128    327     94      128     598
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          22    929       5      467     27       33
Volume Left                           22      0       5        0      5        5
Volume Right                           0     11       0        5      5       22
cSH                                 1094   1700     736    1700     136      239
Volume to Capacity                  0.02   0.55    0.01     0.27   0.20     0.14
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      0       1        0     18       12
Control Delay (s)                    8.4    0.0     9.9      0.0   38.0     22.4
Lane LOS                               A              A               E        C
Approach Delay (s)                   0.2            0.1            38.0     22.4
Approach LOS                                                          E        C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        1.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 55.1%        ICU Level of Service                   B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                Page 11
PM Peak Period                                                                                  12: Boston Ave. & Sunset St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                            9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           50    405       30       85    420       20         70    510     430       15    215      25
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5     5.5
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00              1.00   1.00                1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.99             1.00    0.99               1.00    1.00    0.85    1.00    0.98
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00              0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1843             1770    1850               1770    1863    1583    1770    1834
Flt Permitted                        0.30   1.00              0.31    1.00               0.60    1.00    1.00    0.32    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     566   1843               580   1850               1114    1863    1583      588   1834
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        54    440       33       92    457       22         76    554     467       16     234      27
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       6       0        0       4       0          0       0     130       0       8       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  54    467        0       92    475        0         76    554     337       16    253        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm                       Perm            Perm    Perm
Protected Phases                               4                        8                          2                       6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8                          2               2        6
Actuated Green, G (s)               15.7    15.7             15.7     15.7              20.6     20.6   20.6    20.6    20.6
Effective Green, g (s)              15.7    15.7             15.7     15.7              20.6     20.6   20.6    20.6    20.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.33    0.33             0.33     0.33              0.44     0.44   0.44    0.44    0.44
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5              5.5      5.5               5.5      5.5    5.5      5.5     5.5
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0               3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   188     612              193      614               485      811    689     256     799
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.25                     c0.26                      c0.30                   0.14
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.10                     0.16                       0.07            0.21    0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.29    0.76             0.48     0.77              0.16     0.68   0.49    0.06    0.32
Uniform Delay, d1                   11.7    14.1             12.5     14.2               8.1     10.7    9.6     7.7     8.7
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00              1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.8     5.6              1.9      6.0               0.7      4.6    2.5     0.5     1.0
Delay (s)                           12.5    19.8             14.4     20.2               8.8     15.4   12.0     8.2     9.8
Level of Service                       B       B                B        C                 A        B      B       A       A
Approach Delay (s)                          19.0                      19.3                       13.5                    9.7
Approach LOS                                   B                         B                          B                      A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             15.6       HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.72
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             47.3       Sum of lost time (s)                   11.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   86.8%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 12
PM Peak Period                                                                                    13: Boston Ave. & Hover St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                                              9/12/2008



Movement                             EBL    EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           15    120        35     195       70     230         20   2235     175      175    1985      20
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900      1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.5     5.5               5.5     5.5                6.0     6.0     6.0      5.0     6.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00   1.00               1.00   1.00                1.00    0.95    1.00     0.97    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    0.97              1.00    0.88               1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00               0.95    1.00               0.95    1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1800              1770    1648               1770    3539    1583     3433    3534
Flt Permitted                        0.20   1.00               0.50    1.00               0.05    1.00    1.00     0.05    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     363   1800                932   1648                  94   3539    1583       172   3534
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        16    130        38     212       76    250          22   2429     190      190    2158       22
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       9        0        0      49       0          0       0      49        0       1       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  16    159         0     212     277        0         22   2429     141      190    2179        0
Turn Type                           Perm                      Perm                       Perm            Perm    pm+pt
Protected Phases                               4                         8                          2                 1      6
Permitted Phases                       4                          8                         2               2         6
Actuated Green, G (s)               20.5    20.5               20.5    20.5              79.0     79.0   79.0     88.0     88.0
Effective Green, g (s)              20.5    20.5               20.5    20.5              79.0     79.0   79.0     88.0     88.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.17    0.17               0.17    0.17              0.66     0.66   0.66      0.73    0.73
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5     5.5                5.5     5.5               6.0      6.0    6.0       5.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0               3.0      3.0    3.0       3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                    62     308                159     282                62    2330    1042      235    2592
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.09                       0.17                      c0.69             0.03   c0.62
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.04                      c0.23                      0.23            0.09      0.57
v/c Ratio                           0.26    0.52               1.33    0.98              0.35     1.04   0.14      0.81    0.84
Uniform Delay, d1                   43.2    45.2               49.8    49.6               9.1     20.5    7.7      34.9    11.1
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00              1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                2.2     1.5              186.4    48.5              15.2     30.9    0.3     18.2      3.5
Delay (s)                           45.4    46.7              236.2    98.1              24.3     51.4    8.0      53.1    14.6
Level of Service                       D       D                  F       F                 C        D      A         D       B
Approach Delay (s)                          46.6                      152.5                       48.0                     17.7
Approach LOS                                   D                          F                          D                        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              45.2       HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           1.12
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             120.0       Sum of lost time (s)                   17.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   108.8%        ICU Level of Service                     G
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                                       Page 13
PM Peak Period                                                                         39: Boston Ave & Martin St.
Long Term (2030) Traffic Volumes                                                                            9/12/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         845      60      85     535     340      350
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900   1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0            5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                   0.97            1.00    0.95    0.95
Frt                                  0.99           1.00     1.00    0.92
Flt Protected                       0.96            0.95     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3418           1770     3539    3270
Flt Permitted                       0.96            0.31     1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3418             579    3539    3270
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                      918      65      92     582     370     380
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    9      0       0        0     207       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                974       0      92     582     543        0
Turn Type                                          Perm
Protected Phases                       4                       2       6
Permitted Phases                                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)            22.7               27.3    27.3     27.3
Effective Green, g (s)           22.7               27.3    27.3     27.3
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.38               0.46    0.46     0.46
Clearance Time (s)                5.0                5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0                3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              1293                 263    1610    1488
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.28                       0.16    c0.17
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.16
v/c Ratio                           0.75            0.35    0.36     0.36
Uniform Delay, d1                   16.2            10.6    10.7     10.7
Progression Factor                  1.00            0.84    0.79     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                2.5             3.5     0.6      0.7
Delay (s)                           18.7            12.4     9.0     11.4
Level of Service                       B               B       A        B
Approach Delay (s)                  18.7                     9.4     11.4
Approach LOS                           B                       A        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            13.8       HCM Level of Service          B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.54
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            60.0       Sum of lost time (s)        10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  63.8%        ICU Level of Service           B
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH Inc.                                                                                                      Page 14
