Pleasant Street-Kempton Street
Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6
       Intersection Study
                  New Bedford




                      December 2012

Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
                 Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
                 88 Broadway, Taunton, MA 02780
                 Tel: (508) 824-1367    Fax: (508) 823-1803             Email: lcabral@srpedd.org


Adminstration:                                                          SRPEDD Staff Contributors:
Randall Kunz, SRPEDD Chair                                              Paul L. Mission, Director of Highway Planning
Stephen C. Smith, Executive Director                                    Lisa Estrela-Pedro, Principal Transportation Planner
James C. Hadfield, Transportation Planning Manager                      Adam Recchia, Principal Transportation Planner
                                                                        Lilia Cabral, Senior Transportation Planner
                                                                        Jennifer Chaves, Senior Transportation Planner
                                                                        Jacqueline L. Schmidt, Senior Transportation Planner
                                                                        Christopher Cardaci, Transportation Planner


The preparation of this report has been financed in part through grant[s] from the Federal Highway Administration and
Federal Transit Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, under the State Planning and Research Program,
Section 505 [or Metropolitan Planning Program, Section 104(f)] of Title 23, U.S. Code through Massachusetts Department
of Transportation contract 69625. The contents of this report do not necessarily reflect the official views or policy of the U.S.
Department of Transportation.

The Southeastern Massachusetts Metropolitan Planning Organization (SMMPO) through the Southeastern Regional Planning
and Economic Development District (SRPEDD) states its policy to uphold and assure full compliance with Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, Executive Order 13166 and related federal and state statutes and
regulations. Title VI prohibits discrimination in federally assisted programs and requires that no person in the United States
of America shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits
of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal assistance. Massachusetts law
also prohibits discrimination based on race, color, and/or national origin, and the SMMPO assures compliance with these
laws and related federal and state civil rights laws prohibiting discrimination based on sex, age, and/or disability. Individuals
who feel they have been discriminated against in violation of Title VI must file a complaint within 180 days with the SRPEDD
Title VI / Nondiscrimination Coordinator.

The SMMPO and SRPEDD also uphold the Massachusetts Public Accommodation Law, M.G.L. c 272 §§92a, 98, 98a, and the
Governor's Executive Order 526, section 4 which provide that access to programs, services and benefits be provided without
regard to religious creed, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, veteran's status and/or ancestry, along with
the bases previously referenced. Public accommodation concerns can be brought to SRPEDD's Title VI / Nondiscrimination
Specialist. Complaints must be filed with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (MCAD) within 300 days of
an alleged violation.

For information or to file a complaint under Title VI or the state Public Accommodations law, the contacts are as follows:

Southeastern Regional Planning                     MCAD
& Economic Development District                    One Ashburton Place, 6th Floor
Title VI / Nondiscrimination Coordinator           Boston, MA 02109
88 Broadway                                        (617) 994-6000
Taunton, MA 02780                                  TTY: (617) 994-6196
(508) 824-1367

The SMMPO is equally committed to implementing federal Executive Order 12898, entitled "Federal Actions to Address
Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations." In this capacity, the SMMPO identifies and
addresses disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities
on minority populations and low-income populations. The SMMPO carries out this responsibility by involving minority and
low income individuals in the transportation process and considering their transportation needs in the development and
review of the SMMPO's transportation plans, programs and projects.

Para solicitar una traducción de este documento al Español, por favor llame 508-824-1367.
Para solicitar uma tradução deste documento para o Português, por favor ligue 508-824-1367.
                  Table of Contents



   Executive Summary                                                                                    i
   Introduction                                                                                         1
   Importance of the Intersection                                                                       1
   Existing Conditions: Intersection Layout                                                             4
   Public Outreach                                                                                      6
   Existing Conditions: Traffic Flow/Congestion/Signal Operation                                        6
   Existing Conditions: Intersection Operation                                                          7
   Existing Conditions: Safety Issues                                                                   9
   Existing Conditions: Bicycle and Pedestrian Accommodations                                          11
   Existing Conditions: Transit                                                                        13
   Future Conditions                                                                                   15
            Alternative A                                                                              16
            Alternative B                                                                              17
            Alternative C                                                                              19
   Recommendations                                                                                     20
            Implementation Plan                                                                        24

   Appendix A - Public Outreach
   Appendix B - Traffic Analysis




Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Evaluation, New Bedford
                                                            Executive Summary



The Octopus intersection provides important connections from downtown New
Bedford to Fairhaven and Dartmouth via Route 6, as well as to the north and
south ends of the city via Pleasant Street. It is the focal point of vehicle and
pedestrian traffic for a busy downtown area. It continues to be known as a
problem area to many city residents and was officially identified as a congestion
issue in the 2012 Regional Transportation Plan.

Navigating this busy intersection in a vehicle or on foot can be confusing,
frustrating, and dangerous. Three pedestrian crashes have occurred here over
the past several years, with one crash resulting in a fatality. During the course of
the study, issues particular to this intersection were identified:

    ·   Safety and congestion problems at the Route 6 westbound approach
        include traffic from the Route 18 off ramp attempting to cross two lanes
        of traffic to turn left;
    ·   Route 6 westbound approach has a right-turn green arrow that works
        in conjunction with a `No Turn On Red' sign creating confusion for both
        motorists and pedestrians;
    ·   Vehicle queues on Pleasant Street between Hillman Street and the
        Octopus are blocking access and egress to the city's main fire station;
    ·   Vehicle queues created by the closing of the New Bedford ­ Fairhaven
        Bridge severely congests the intersection and contributes to the blocked
        access and egress of the fire station;
    ·   Pedestrian crashes, including a fatality, identified the poor placement of
        crosswalks, inadequate crossing times and an extended wait period for
        the pedestrian phase to commence;
    ·   People reluctant to use the pedestrian overpass due to its isolated
        location away from the intersection, its steep grade over Route 6, and
        concern for personal safety when crossing the bridge alone at night.

SRPEDD's recommendations for this intersection are referred to as Alternative A
in the study. This alternative includes the following improvements:

Signal timings / Equipment ­ The optimization of the signal timings which
would require the replacement of the existing traffic signal equipment. This
would include separate concurrent pedestrian phases that would operate in
conjunction with each non-opposing signal phase and adequate pedestrian
crossing times for each approach based on the crossing width.

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Evaluation, New Bedford   i
     Pavement markings - The updating of all pavement markings at the intersection.
     This would include re-striping the center lane on the Route 6 westbound
     approach as a shared thru/left-turn lane with line extensions continuing
     through the intersection and onto Sixth Street. It would also include pavement
     markings on Pleasant Street north of the intersection and on Sixth street south
     of the intersection in order to formalize two travel lanes on each of these legs
     and better guide traffic through the intersection, as well as `yield' pavement
     markings at the northbound right approach and formal bicycle lanes.

     Signage ­ This includes Stop signs, Yield signs, No Turn On Red signs, No Right
     Turn signs, No Left Turn signs, Intersection Lane Control signs (depicting the new
     configuration at the westbound approach), and a Push Button For Walk sign for
     pedestrians on the safe and proper use of pedestrians signals.

     ADA compliant bicycle and pedestrian safety improvements - This includes
     the installation and upgrading of sidewalks, updated crosswalks, curb ramps
     with detectable warning panels and signage and formal bicycle lanes. Some
     geometric modifications to accommodate changes may be necessary.

     Pedestrian overpass ­ This includes making the overpass more user-friendly by
     removing surrounding shrubbery and providing better lighting.

     Pedestrian education ­ This includes instructional pamphlets and posters,
     especially for the residents of Melville Towers and the New Bedford Hotel on
     pedestrian safety and the safe and proper use of the intersection.




ii               Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
                                                                              Intersection Study
                                              Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street
                                                      Sixth Street-Route 6, New Bedford




 Introduction
The intersection of Pleasant Street, Kempton Street, Mill Street, Sixth Street,
and Route 6 in New Bedford is the focal point of vehicle and pedestrian traffic
for a busy downtown area. Although the origin is unclear, residents refer to this
location as the "Octopus" due to the numerous road segments that make up the
                                                                                        Although the origin is
intersection, pictured in Figure 1.                                                     unclear, residents refer
                                                                                        to this location as the
The Octopus is a gateway to the Central Business District of New Bedford                "Octopus" due to the
and connects it to all parts of the city as well as to the towns of Fairhaven           numerous road segments
and Dartmouth. It continues to be known as a problem area to many city
                                                                                        that make up the
residents and was officially identified as a congestion issue in the 2012 Regional
Transportation Plan.                                                                    intersection.

Due to its central location bordering Downtown New Bedford and proximity
to dense residential development including adjacent multi-unit residential
buildings, the intersection is heavily traveled by vehicular traffic, pedestrians,
bicyclists, buses, and emergency vehicles.

Navigating this busy intersection in a vehicle or on foot can be confusing,
frustrating, and dangerous. Following 3 pedestrian crashes over the past several
years, with one crash resulting in a fatality, the city of New Bedford requested
that SRPEDD study the intersection to identify issues and recommend possible
solutions.

 Importance of the Intersection
The Octopus intersection consists of six distinct streets with four separate
approaches, as shown in Figure 1. The immediate area consists of three high
rise housing complexes, New Bedford's main fire station, the District Court and
the city's main U.S. Post Office. The intersection experiences heavy vehicle and
pedestrian traffic, especially during peak hours.

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford                    1
    Figure 1:
    Aerial View of the Octopus


2                                Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
The intersection provides important connections from downtown New Bedford
to Fairhaven and Dartmouth via Route 6, as well as to the north and south ends
of the city via Pleasant Street. An off ramp from the southbound JFK Highway
(Route 18) directly connects into the intersection.

The intersection is bordered by three high rise apartment complexes. Melville
Towers, as shown in Figure 2 , contains 320 apartments with residency restricted
to seniors and people with disabilities. The Regency, pictured in Figure 3,
is a private high rise with 129 luxury apartments. The New Bedford Hotel
Apartments, pictured in Figure 4, also serves senior residents with a total of 112
units.




 Figure 2:
 Melville Towers




                                                                      Figure 3:
                                                                      The Regency




 Figure 4:
 New Bedford Hotel

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   3
    Businesses surrounding the intersection include various professional services,
    a Walgreen's pharmacy on the northeast corner with the main fire station for
    the city immediately north of the pharmacy. In addition, there are several public
    buildings, retail stores, restaurants, banks, and other facilities located within
    walking distance of the intersection. Public bus service is provided throughout
    the city from the main bus terminal for the Southeastern Regional Transit
    Authority (SRTA), with seven of the thirteen city bus routes traveling through the
    intersection. Additional destinations in the downtown area include City Hall and
    the New Bedford Free Public Library. Figure 1 also displays the surrounding land
    use in relation to the Octopus intersection.

    Existing Conditions - Intersection Layout
    The detailed information regarding each street for this intersection is as follows:

    Route 6 - The westbound approach to the intersection is signed as U.S. Route
    6. This segment carries two-way traffic over the New Bedford-Fairhaven
    Bridge. As Route 6 approaches the intersection, an off ramp from Route 18
    (the JFK Highway) merges with this segment approximately 215 feet east of the
    intersection. The approach to the intersection is divided into three lanes; one
    right-turn lane, one center thru lane and one left-turn lane. The center thru lane
    was formerly striped as a shared thru/left-turn lane and is still used as such by
    many motorists who became accustomed to this designation.

    The right-turn lane is 11 feet wide, the center thru lane is 13 feet wide and the
    left-turn lane is 10.5 feet wide. Total afternoon peak hour traffic volume at this
    approach is 660 vehicles. The speed limit approaching the intersection is 30
    miles per hour (mph). Route 6 is functionally classified as an Urban Principal
    Arterial and is part of the National Highway System (NHS). There is a pedestrian
    overpass above this approach which connects the Melville Towers property
    to Pleasant Street, ultimately providing access to Downtown. This overpass is
    owned by the city. Initially it was the responsibility of the New Bedford Housing
    Authority and is now under the purview of the New Bedford Redevelopment
    Authority.

    Pleasant Street Southbound - The southbound approach to the intersection
    is designated as Pleasant Street and carries two-way traffic. The southbound
    approach is divided into two lanes; a shared thru/right-turn lane and a shared
    thru/left-turn lane. The thru/left lane is 14.5 feet wide while the thru/right lane
    is 14 feet wide. Total afternoon peak hour traffic volume at this approach is 397
    vehicles. Pleasant Street is functionally classified as an Urban Minor Arterial.

    Pleasant Street Northbound - The northbound approach to the intersection is
    also named Pleasant Street and carries one-way traffic northbound towards the
    intersection. The northbound approach is divided into four lanes; a left-turn
    lane, two thru center lanes and a right-turn lane with an exclusive right-turn bay
    that allows free flow movements controlled by a yield sign. The right turn lane
    (prior to the right-turn bay) is 17.5 feet wide, both thru lanes are 13 feet wide
    and the left-turn lane is 11 feet wide. Total afternoon peak hour traffic volume
    at this approach is 615 vehicles, with 118 of them turning right onto Route 6.
    Pleasant Street is functionally classified as an Urban Minor Arterial.

    Sixth Street - Sixth Street carries one-way traffic southbound away from the
    intersection. It consists of two travel lanes, each approximately 20 feet wide and
    it carries a total of 699 vehicles during the afternoon peak hour. Sixth Street is
4                Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
functionally classified as an Urban Minor Arterial.

Kempton Street ­ This is designated as a one-way street eastbound towards the
intersection. The approach is divided into two lanes; a left-turn lane and a thru
lane. Right turns are accommodated at this approach by a right-turn slip ramp
290 feet prior to Sixth Street. The left-turn lane is 12.5 feet wide while the thru
lane is 18 feet wide. Total afternoon peak hour traffic volume at the approach
is 441 vehicles, with an additional 97 vehicles making a right-turn prior to the
intersection in order to access Sixth Street. The posted speed limit on this
approach is 25 mph. Kempton Street is functionally classified as an Urban Minor
Arterial.

Mill Street - Mill Street carries one-way traffic in the westbound direction away
from the intersection. It consists of two 15 foot lanes and has a posted speed
limit of 25 mph. Total afternoon peak hour traffic volume entering Mill Street
is 351 vehicles. Mill Street is functionally classified as an Urban Minor Arterial.
Together, Kempton Street and Mill Street are part of the National Highway
System and are both designated as U.S. Route 6.

Figure 5 illustrates lane widths and afternoon peak hour traffic volumes at each
approach.




Figure 5:
Lane Widths and Afternoon Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   5
                          Public Outreach
                          In preparation for the study, SRPEDD initiated a broad public outreach effort
                          announcing the study and held a public outreach meeting at the New Bedford
                          Free Public Library on February 1, 2012. This provided an opportunity for
In preparation for the    residents and businesses to comment on and discuss various issues concerning
study, SRPEDD initiated   the intersection. SRPEDD also held a separate meeting at Melville Towers
                          to discuss the concerns of the residents regarding the intersection and the
a broad public outreach
                          pedestrian overpass directly connected to this complex.
effort announcing the
study and held a public   As a result of the two meetings, staff identified several issues to investigate as
outreach meeting at the   part of the study. These issues are summarized into the following five major
New Bedford Free Public   concerns:
Library on February 1,
                          1. The pedestrian bridge is not `user-friendly' and is not frequently used.
2012.                     Contributing factors include insufficient lighting, vagrants and homeless persons
                          loitering beneath the bridge and that it is too steep to navigate safely.

                          2. The green arrow for right turns at the traffic signal for Route 6 westbound
                          confuses both pedestrians and motorists on who has the right-of-way. While
                          the southbound Pleasant Street approach is green, the green arrow for Route
                          6 westbound right turns is also activated. There is a "No Turn on Red" sign for
                          the westbound Route 6 right turns. Motorists are accustomed to making the
                          right turn with the green arrow. Unfortunately, motorists continue to make this
                          particular turn when the green arrow is deactivated. When this occurs, they are
                          violating the "No Turn on Red" prohibition. This creates confusion for drivers and
                          pedestrians resulting in a potentially dangerous situation as was the case where
                          a pedestrian was nearly run over by a heavy multi-axle truck making the right
                          turn.

                          3. A lack of a police presence to enforce motor vehicle laws exists at this
                          location, especially with the Route 6 westbound approach and motorists
                          ignoring the "No Turn on Red" prohibition.

                          4. The pedestrian light cycle phase at the intersection is not sufficiently timed to
                          allow pedestrians to safely cross the street. This issue is amplified for elderly or
                          mobility impaired pedestrians.

                          5. A surprising revelation at these meetings was the number of people that
                          admitted to regularly walking through this intersection without using the
                          pedestrian signal.


                          Existing Conditions - Traffic Flow / Congestion / Signal Operation
                          The signal system at the intersection is a fully actuated system that utilizes
                          detectors with the phases dependent on the number of vehicles waiting.
                          Unfortunately, the detectors used at this intersection are pole-mounted
                          microwave devices that are inaccurate during inclement weather. The signal
                          system has four separate phases, one for each approach, allowing for protected
                          left-turns on each phase. The first phase is the Pleasant Street northbound
                          approach that allows all movements (right-turns, left-turns and thru movements)
                          to proceed. The second phase is the Pleasant Street southbound approach
                          which allows all movements to proceed while allowing right-turns from Route

       6                               Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
6 westbound to proceed with a green turn arrow indication. The third phase is
the Kempton Street eastbound approach that allows all movements (left-turns
and thrus) to proceed. The fourth phase is the Route 6 westbound approach
that allows right, left and thru movements to proceed. There is also an "all-
pedestrian" phase in the system that stops all vehicular traffic. This pedestrian
phase is initiated between the southbound and eastbound phases only when it
is activated by one of the pedestrian push-buttons. Figure 6 illustrates the signal
phasing.




Figure 6:
Existing Signal Phasing


 Existing Conditions - Intersection Operation
Due to construction on the JFK Highway at both Elm Street and Union Street
that would adversely affect traffic volumes at the Octopus during typical traffic
patterns for the downtown, analysis resulting from counts recorded during this
construction period would be suspect. Therefore, 2008-2009 volumes taken
immediately before the construction began were used.

The traffic counts performed at the intersection revealed that it experiences
significant congestion, particularly during the afternoon or PM peak hour
period. The peak hour is when the volume of traffic is at its greatest, usually         The traffic counts
during commuting times. To determine the extent of the congestion or how                performed at the
efficiently the intersection operates, the Level of Service (LOS) is calculated. LOS    intersection revealed that
is an A to F grading system that describes the amount of congestion present at          it experiences significant
an intersection based on the average delays experienced by motorists. LOS A             congestion, particularly
represents minimal delay while LOS E and F represent gridlocked conditions.
                                                                                        during the afternoon or PM
A count performed in 2008 revealed that the AM Peak Hour total volume was               peak hour period.
2,187 vehicles. The AM Peak Hour was an overall LOS D with an average delay
per vehicle of 47 seconds. A count performed in 2009 revealed that the PM
Peak Hour total volume was 2,113 vehicles with an overall LOS E with a delay of
62 seconds per vehicle. Though the AM peak hour has more vehicular volume,
it operates at a better level of service due to less pedestrian calls and different
traffic volumes at each approach.

During the PM peak hour, the Kempton Street eastbound and Route 6
westbound approaches were the most congested, operating at LOS E. The Route
6 left-turn movement operated at the worst condition (LOS F). The Pleasant
Street northbound and southbound approaches operated at LOS D. Due to its
additional time allowed by the right-turn green arrow during the southbound
phase, the Route 6 westbound right-turns were the only uncongested
movement, operating at LOS C.

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford                  7
                                         The Route 6 westbound approach has two unique problems. The first is when
                                         the New Bedford-Fairhaven Bridge closes to vehicular traffic, allowing access/
                                         egress to the harbor for the fishing fleet and sea shipping north of the New
                                         Bedford/Fairhaven Bridge. This bridge closure frequently causes long traffic
                                         queues to build up on both sides of the swing-span bridge. When the bridge
                                         re-opens, the sudden surge of vehicles worsens normal delays on the Route 6
                                         westbound approach to the intersection. The second problem is with the Route
                                         18 southbound ramp to Route 6 westbound which is only 215 feet from the
                                         intersection, resulting in a dangerous and difficult weave as traffic approaches
                                         the intersection. Additionally, some motorists traveling from the bridge and
                                         wishing to cross three lanes to take a right onto Pleasant Street have created
                                         their own travel lane across the grassy unpaved island prior to the intersection.
                                         During the PM Peak Hour, 204 vehicles use this ramp with 13% turning right
                                         at the intersection, 19% proceeding straight through the intersection and 68%
                                         turning left at the intersection. Those vehicles wishing to turn left must cross
                                         two lanes to do so under the intersection's current configuration. Figure 7
                                         illustrates the distribution of traffic coming off of the Route 18 southbound
                                         ramp.




Figure 7:
Route 18 Southbound Ramp Distribution at the Octopus



         8                                             Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
The Pleasant Street southbound approach also suffers from its own unique
issues related to access and egress to the main fire station located north of
the intersection. Currently, there is no emergency traffic signal located at the
station's driveway. Fire and emergency vehicles often have difficulty exiting
the station during emergencies with traffic queues between the Octopus
intersection and the Hillman Street intersection blocking the driveway. To
resolve this situation, the city is installing emergency vehicle preemption
equipment (Opticom) as part of the traffic signal at the Octopus. This will
allow emergency responders to change the signal phasing at the intersection in
order to clear traffic queues to exit the station and receive a green signal when
approaching the intersection.


 Existing Conditions - Safety Issues
A number of safety issues have been identified at this intersection using motor
vehicle crash reports obtained from the New Bedford Police Department. There
were 32 crashes during the three-year analysis period (2009 ­ 2011), including
2 pedestrian crashes. One additional pedestrian crash in 2008 was considered
as part of the analysis due to the high volume of pedestrian activity and safety
issues at the intersection, bringing the total to three pedestrian crashes. All of
the crash reports were reviewed to determine the specific circumstances of
each crash, to identify reoccurring trends and to develop measures to address
contributing factors.

During the analysis period there was one fatality, 9 injury and 22 property
damage crashes. Twenty-eight percent (28%) of the crashes occurred in the
vicinity of the JFK Highway off-ramp; eighteen percent (18%) of the crash reports
contained documentation alluding to distracted driving; and twelve percent
(12%) were attributed to poor weather conditions.

Two methods are used to determine the ranking of intersections in terms
of safety. The first measures crash severity while the other measures crash
probability.

Equivalent Property Damage Only (EPDO) index ranks intersections based on
the severity of collisions, giving greater importance to those crashes in which
injuries or fatalities have occurred. The higher the EPDO index, the greater the
severity of the crashes. The EPDO for this intersection was calculated at 25.66,
exceeding the SRPEDD regional threshold of 17.7.

Accidents per Million Entering Vehicles (ACC/MEV) rate is a ranking system
based on traffic volume and measures crash probability. This system allows
a comparison of intersections with different traffic characteristics, ultimately
providing the probability of being in a collision at a given intersection. The
ACC/MEV crash rate for this intersection was calculated at 1.18 which exceeds
the crash threshold of 0.77 identified by the Massachusetts Department of
Transportation (MassDOT) Highway Division. The crash data and analysis
confirms that the intersection is a safety problem.

Route 6 westbound traffic from the New Bedford/Fairhaven Bridge and the
JFK Highway (southbound) approach experienced over half of the crashes. This
segment is heavily used by pedestrians as it provides direct access between
downtown and Melville Towers including the Walgreen's pharmacy located on

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   9
                                     the northeast corner. Two of the three pedestrian crashes involved pedestrians
                                     crossing this leg of the intersection. The first of these crashes involved a motorist
                                     driving in a westbound approach to the intersection. The second involved
                                     a motorist taking a southbound left-turn from Pleasant Street to the Route
                                     6 eastbound direction. The remaining pedestrian crash involved a motorist
                                     traveling westbound on Route 6 before attempting a right-turn onto Pleasant
                                     Street and striking a pedestrian that was crossing the southbound leg of the
                                     intersection. Figure 8 illustrates the pedestrian crashes.




Figure 8:
2008-2011 Pedestrian Crash Diagram

                                     There are three lanes leading to the Route 6 westbound approach. The left lane
                                     is a left-turn only lane and the right lane is a right-turn only lane. The center lane
                                     was, at one time, marked as both a left-turn and thru lane, but was changed
                                     and the lane markings re-painted to a thru lane only. Motorists continue to use
                                     the center lane as a left-turn lane due to its previous designation and due to
                                     the high number of left turns taken here. A total of 6 crashes (18%) involved
                                     two westbound vehicles traveling in parallel lanes. Four of these involved
                                     motorists in the left-turn lane attempting to make a thru movement colliding
                                     with motorists in the center lane attempting to turn left. Based on the current
                                     lane configurations and pavement markings all motorists were in violation of

       10                                         Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
appropriate lane use. The additional two crashes involved motorists in parallel
lanes making a left turn and failing to yield. Figure 9 illustrates all crashes
experienced at the intersection.




Figure 9:
2009 - 2011 Crash Diagram


 Existing Conditions - Bicycle and Pedestrian Accommodations
The intersection in its current configuration has limited bicycle accommodations.
There are no formal bicycle lanes through the intersection, however, the Mill
Street, Kempton Street and Sixth Street legs of the intersection have ample lane
widths that could be reconfigured to accommodate bicycles as a shoulder or a
formal bicycle lane. The Mill Street construction project west of the intersection
is being designed with bicycle lanes, but this intersection is beyond the limits
of that project. Route 6 from this intersection to the New Bedford-Fairhaven
Bridge has a bicycle and pedestrian prohibition forcing bicyclists and pedestrians
to seek a different route to access the bridge.

Although extensive pedestrian accommodations exist at the intersection, much
of these accommodations are flawed or do not meet current ADA guidelines.
Each approach has crosswalks and a pedestrian signal. The Pleasant Street
northbound approach also has a crosswalk across the right-turn bay leading to
the Route 6 Bridge. There is an exclusive pedestrian phase as part of the signal
operation that stops all traffic to allow pedestrians to cross any approach when
activated by a pedestrian. Each sidewalk also includes curb ramps and marked
crosswalks. In addition to these accommodations at the intersection, there is
a pedestrian bridge over Route 6 connecting Melville Towers to the north with


Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   11
     the southern side of Route 6. There is an access walkway leading to the sidewalk
     along Pleasant Street south of Route 6 and a series of stairs and sidewalks to
     Walgreens, Pleasant Street and Melville Towers north of Route 6.

     A number of pedestrian accommodations do not meet the Americans with
     Disabilities Act (ADA) guidelines. This includes:

         · Lack of a sidewalk on the Kempton Street approach;
         · The crosswalk at the westbound approach is technically in the traveled
           way of Pleasant Street. If it were moved east, the cobblestone median
           would need to be cut back so as to not interfere with the crosswalk;
         · There are no detectable warning panels at any curb cut;
         · There are inappropriate apex curb cuts on the southeast and northeast
           corners of the intersection;
         · The pedestrian signals are not Accessible Pedestrian Signals (they do not
           provide information in non-visual ways);
         · The countdown timers in the pedestrian signals are displayed during
           the walk phase. These timers should begin in the clearance phase as
           explained in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD);
         · The crossing times for each pedestrian signal are inadequate for slow
           walkers or the mobility impaired. Currently, there is a 10-second walk
           phase and a 10-second clearance phase. The MUTCD states that the
           pedestrian clearance time should be long enough to allow a pedestrian
           leaving the curb during the walk phase adequate time to reach the far-
           side of the traveled way at 3.5 feet per second. Since this intersection
           has an "all-pedestrian" or "scatter" phase, it needs to accommodate the
           longest crosswalk distance at 83.3 feet. Therefore, the clearance phase
           should be 24 seconds, with 31 seconds of total pedestrian phase time.
           To accommodate slower walkers and those in wheelchairs, a clearance
           time of 28 seconds should be used (3 feet per second)]. Figure 10
           illustrates these timings and crossing distances at each approach.
         · During peak times, pedestrians can wait up to 135 seconds (over
           2 minutes) for the commencement of the pedestrian phase after
           activating it with a push-button; and
         · At the pedestrian overpass:
                o Expansion joints at each end of overpass are greater than 3
                    inches in width; and
                o Drainage grates are not compliant and have greater than ½ inch
                    gaps.

     At the public meeting, there were concerns voiced regarding the pedestrian
     bridge and the difficulty crossing the facility. Older residents, as well as
     those with mobility issues, repeatedly stated this concern. Upon inspection,
     staff determined that the bridge was in general compliance according to
     ADA guidelines with slopes and handrails on the access ramps leading up to
     it, however, the arc of the bridge itself may have too steep of a grade to be
     compliant.

      Another issue brought to light at the public meeting was the number
     of residents admitting that they avoid using the pedestrian phase of the
     intersection due to impatience at the amount of time needed to wait for the
     pedestrian signal, as well as the insufficient time provided by the signal in order
     to safely cross. During the data collection efforts and field observations for the


12                Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
pedestrian movements, staff observed several pedestrians failing to use the
facilities provided at the intersection. This included pedestrians failing to use
crosswalks, failing to invoke the pedestrian phase of the signal, or entering the
intersection with total disregard to traffic flow. Figure 10 illustrates crossing
distances and necessary pedestrian signal timings.




Figure 10:
Crossing Distances and Necessary Pedestrian Signal Timings


 Existing Conditions - Transit
The Southeastern Regional Transit Authority (SRTA) provides public transit for
the city of New Bedford. With the SRTA terminal a few blocks south of this
intersection, seven of the thirteen New Bedford bus routes travel through the
Octopus. Route 2 - Lund's Corner and Route 4 - Ashley Boulevard travel north via
Pleasant Street. Route 6 - Shawmut-Rockdale, Route 8 - Mt. Pleasant, Route 9 -
New Bedford to Fall River and Route 10 - Dartmouth Mall, all travel west via Mill
and Kempton Street. Route 11 - Fairhaven travels east via Route 6.

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   13
     Route 2 ­ Lund's Corner is the only route that services Melville Towers directly,
     using Tower Drive as a deviation. There is a small shelter/bench at the bottom
     of an accessible ramp to the entrance at Melville on Tower Drive. Service to
     Melville is limited, only deviating 12 times per weekday and 9 times on Saturday.
     As stated at a public meeting, Melville residents using the bus as a means to
     avoid walking thru the intersection can use two additional stops on Hillman
     Street which are not ideally located. Hillman Street has a steep grade making
     it difficult to navigate for the elderly and/or mobility impaired. As displayed
     in Figure 11, there are no bus stops located directly within the Octopus
     intersection. The closest bus stop is east of the Octopus on Mill Street.




     Figure 11:
     SRTA Bus Routes Traveling Through the Octopus Intersection

14                Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
 Future Conditions
Future traffic volumes at the intersection were calculated in order to analyze
future congestion issues and to ensure that any recommendations for
improvement are viable for at least 25 years. These volumes, representing the           The Regional Travel
year 2035, were calculated using SRPEDD's Regional Travel Demand Forecasting            Demand Forecasting
Model and show an overall increase of nearly 8%. The Regional Travel Demand             Model looks at
Forecasting Model looks at population, household and employment growth                  population, household and
and calculates traffic volumes on major roads in the region's roadway network.
                                                                                        employment growth and
The city of New Bedford overall is expected to see moderate growth in both
employment and population by the year 2035. However, the city's waterfront              calculates traffic volumes
to the east and southeast of the Octopus is projected to have high employment           on major roads in the
growth as short sea shipping and other harbor development projects take shape.          region's roadway network.
Additionally, the proposed Whale's Tooth South Coast Rail station is expected
to bring both housing and employment growth to the area northwest of the
Octopus.

Under these 2035 traffic conditions, operations at the intersection would
deteriorate to LOS E with an average delay of 76 seconds per vehicle in a
`no-build scenario' where no improvements are implemented. The Route 6
westbound left-turns would continue to be the most congested movement,
operating at LOS F with delays greater than 120 seconds per vehicle. Kempton
Street eastbound left-turns would also operate at LOS F and Kempton Street
eastbound thru movements and Pleasant Street northbound thru movements
would operate at LOS E.

With the increases in traffic projected up to the year 2035, overall congestion
will worsen, as will the issues particular to this intersection. In summary, these
issues include:

 ·   Safety and congestion problems at the Route 6 westbound approach                   With the increases in
     include traffic from the Route 18 off ramp attempting to cross two lanes of        traffic projected up to
     traffic to turn left;
 ·   Route 6 westbound approach has a right-turn green arrow that works
                                                                                        the year 2035, overall
     in conjunction with a `No Turn On Red' sign creating confusion for both            congestion will worsen, as
     motorists and pedestrians;                                                         will the issues particular to
 ·   Vehicle queues on Pleasant Street between Hillman Street and the Octopus           this intersection.
     are blocking access and egress to the city's main fire station;
 ·   Vehicle queues created by the closing of the New Bedford ­ Fairhaven
     Bridge severely congests the intersection and contributes to the blocked
     access and egress of the fire station;
 ·   Pedestrian crashes including a fatality identified the poor placement of
     crosswalks, inadequate crossing times and an extended wait period for the
     pedestrian phase to commence; and
 ·   People reluctant to use the pedestrian overpass due to its isolated location
     away from the intersection, its steep grade over Route 6, and concern for
     personal safety when crossing the bridge alone at night.

Several different improvement scenarios were analyzed in an attempt to
decrease congestion and improve both vehicular and pedestrian safety at the
intersection. Alternative A proposes to optimize signal timings and update
pavement markings. Alternative B includes the alternative A improvements
coupled with the closing of the Route 18 southbound to Route 6 westbound
ramp that connects into the intersection. Alternative C investigates the
feasibility of replacing the intersection with a roundabout.

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford                    15
                                         Alternative A: Optimize Signal Timings and Update Pavement Markings

                                         This alternative would optimize the signal timings, which would require an
                                         upgrade or the replacement of the signal system as well as updated pavement
                                         markings at the intersection. Updated pavement markings would include re-
                                         striping the center lane on the Route 6 westbound approach as a shared thru/
                                         left-turn lane with line extensions continuing through the intersection and onto
                                         Sixth Street. These markings help guide vehicles through the intersection and
Figure 12:                               prevent sideswipe crashes. A lane use sign depicting this new configuration at
Lane Use Sign for Westbound              the westbound approach would also be helpful in giving motorists advanced
Approach (R3-8a)                         warning of the proper lane use. Figure 12 displays MUTCD sign number R3-8a.
                                         Pavement markings on Pleasant Street north of the intersection and on Sixth
                                         street south of the intersection are also needed in order to formalize two travel
                                         lanes on each of these legs and better guide traffic through the intersection.

                                         This alternative would also change the exclusive pedestrian phase to separate
                                         concurrent phases that would operate in conjunction with each non-opposing
                                         signal phase. Adequate pedestrian crossing times for each approach based on
                                         its crossing width would also be necessary. Figure 13 illustrates the potential
                                         concurrent pedestrian phasing at this intersection.




                     Figure 13:
                     Potential Concurrent Pedestrian Phasing
                                         As shown in Figure 13 photo A, the pedestrian attempting to cross the Route
                                         6 westbound approach would see a `Walk' symbol when the Pleasant Street
                                         northbound approach vehicles have a green signal. In photo B the Kempton
                                         Street eastbound vehicles have a green signal while pedestrians crossing Sixth
                                         Street or the Pleasant Street northbound approach would see the `Walk' signal.
                                         A similar pattern exists for the Route 6 westbound phase and the Pleasant Street

        16                                            Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
Table 1:
Total Seconds Necessary for Each Pedestrian Phase

 Crosswalk:                              Walk           Clearance              Total
 Route 6 crosswalk                         7                24                  31
 Sixth St crosswalk                        7                13                  20
 Kempton St/Mill St crosswalk              7                23                  30
 Pleasant St NB crosswalk                  7                13                  20
 Pleasant St SB crosswalk                  7                24                  31

southbound phase as shown in photos C and D respectively. Table 1 displays the
necessary pedestrian signal times in seconds for each approach.
Under current traffic conditions, this alternative would improve intersection
efficiency from an LOS E to an LOS D and would lower the average delay from 62
seconds to 49 seconds per vehicle. The Kempton Street eastbound and Route
6 westbound approaches would also be improved from LOS E to LOS D. Under
2035 traffic conditions, overall intersection Level of Service would remain an LOS
E, however, the average delay would decrease from 76 seconds to 56 seconds per
vehicle. The Route 6 westbound left-turn would improve from LOS F to LOS E.

Alternative B: Close the Route 18 Southbound Ramp to Route 6 Westbound

Closing this ramp would alleviate the dangerous weave pattern that takes place
on the Route 6 westbound approach to the intersection while eliminating 204
vehicles from the westbound approach during the PM peak hour. Under existing
traffic conditions with optimized signal timings and concurrent pedestrian phases,
this would improve the westbound approach from a LOS E to a LOS C and would
reduce delay from 76 seconds per vehicle to 34 seconds per vehicle. Overall
intersection operation would improve from LOS E to LOS D, with delay being
reduced from 62 seconds per vehicle to 47 seconds per vehicle.

Future traffic conditions under this scenario were analyzed using a TransModeler
simulation for the surrounding area for the year 2035. With these improvements,
overall intersection operation would improve from LOS E to LOS D, reducing delay
from 76 seconds per vehicle to 50 seconds per vehicle. The Route 6 westbound
approach would improve from a LOS F to a LOS D, reducing delay from 107
seconds per vehicle to 38 seconds per vehicle.

The 204 vehicles that used the Route 18 southbound ramp to Route 6 westbound
during the PM peak hour would likely relocate to other exits to the downtown
area from Route 18. This includes the Purchase Street ramp or the Elm Street and
Union Street intersections. SRPEDD's Regional Travel Demand Forecasting Model
estimates that 40% of the ramp traffic would use the Purchase Street exit, 45%
would use the Elm Street intersection and 15% would continue to Union Street.
Figure 14 illustrates the redistribution of traffic resulting from the closure of this
ramp.

Some of the traffic diverted to the Purchase Street ramp would re-enter the
intersection at the Pleasant Street southbound approach (approximately 57
vehicles). The additional traffic at the Purchase Street off-ramp would deteriorate
the operation of that intersection and likely necessitate a traffic signal. The Route
18 southbound ramp to Purchase Street is currently under stop sign control
with a flashing red light for the ramp approach and a flashing yellow light for the
Purchase Street approaches. The ramp is 27' wide approaching Purchase Street
and has two un-marked lanes for both right and left turns. The ramp approach

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   17
           Figure 14:
           Route 18 Southbound Ramp Closure Traffic Redistribution
       currently operates at LOS F during the PM peak hour with an average delay
       of 60 seconds per vehicle. This delay may be slightly exaggerated, given the
       aggressive nature of drivers observed exiting the ramp.

       With the additional traffic from the Route 18 southbound ramp to Route
       6 westbound (approximately 82 vehicles), the Purchase Street ramp delay
       would increase further, exceeding 120 seconds per vehicle. The installation
       of a traffic signal would improve the ramp's operation to LOS A under during
       existing and future (2035) traffic conditions. Table 2 summarizes existing and
       future conditions at the Octopus intersection under a no-build scenario and
       alternatives A and B.
     Table 2:
     PM Peak Hour Intersection Level of Service and Average Delay per
     Vehicle under 2012 and 2035 Traffic Conditions

     Alternave                                          2012 LOS (Delay)   2035 LOS (Delay)
     No Build                                                E (62)             E (76)
     (Alt A) Opmize Signal Timings and Update
                                                              D (49)            E (56)
     Pavement Markings
     (Alt B) Close the Route 18SB>Route 6WB Ramp             D (47)             D (50)



18                   Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
Alternative C: Roundabout

A roundabout at this location was considered as a measure to improve
both congestion and safety. Under current traffic conditions, a roundabout
would necessitate two lanes at the southbound, eastbound and westbound
approaches. According to the Federal Highway Administration's (FHWA)
guidance on roundabouts, if the sum of the approach volume and the circulating
volume is between 1,200 and 2,000 vehicles per hour then a two lane approach
could function properly . Sums less than 1,200 vehicles per hour could function
properly with a single lane approach. Table 3 below summarizes approach
volumes and circulating volumes for this intersection if a roundabout were
constructed. As is evident from the table, only the northbound approach could
function properly with a single lane approach.
Table 3:
PM Peak Hour Approach Volumes and Circulating Volumes at a Potential Roundabout

        Approach Volume        Circulang Volume         (Approach, Circulang)
 NB           585                     592                      1,177
 SB           478                     807                     1,285*
 EB           507                     848                     1,355*
 WB           868                     873                     1,741*
 *Exceeds single-lane roundabout 1,200 vph threshold for proper funcon
MassDOT has guidance on the roundabout sizes necessary to accommodate
certain vehicles according to roadway functional classification. Since this
intersection consists of arterial roadways, a circle with a minimum of 100 feet in
diameter would be necessary as shown in Figure 15. Given that this intersection
would need to be a multi-lane roundabout, an additional 50 to 100 feet is
necessary to accommodate the extra lanes. A circle 150 to 200 feet in diameter
would infringe on the parkland between Sixth Street and Pleasant Street.




             Figure 15:
             MassDOT Roundabout Standards

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   19
     Multi-lane roundabouts tend to be confusing to motorists and difficult for pedestrians
     to navigate (particularly those with disabilities). In addition, land-takings would be
     necessary to fit a multi-lane roundabout at this location. Therefore, a roundabout is not
     feasible nor is it recommended.

     Regardless of the improvement alternatives, there is also a need for additional
     pedestrian education to inform residents in the immediate area as well as throughout
     the city on the safe and proper way to cross busy intersections. This includes the
     distribution of information signs and brochures targeting the population who frequently
     use the Octopus including the surrounding high rise apartments and residences
     surrounding the intersection. SRPEDD can provide this information and with the
     assistance and cooperation of the city and residential area, distribute this information to
     better inform the public on how to traverse this intersection properly and safely.


     Recommendations
     Alternative A

     This alternative will optimize signal timings, and provide a concurrent pedestrian signal
     phasing. It would require an upgrade or the replacement of the existing traffic signal
     equipment. It also includes updating pavement markings and signage, including re-
     striping the Route 6 westbound center lane to accommodate a shared thru/ left-turn
     movement. It would also include some geometric modifications to accommodate all
     improvements. The concurrent pedestrian signal phases and pedestrian education are an
     integral component to improve mobility and safety for pedestrians at this intersection.
     Other issues not directly within the intersection including the deficiencies of the
     pedestrian overpass, lighting and overgrown shrubbery in the surrounding areas, need
     to be addressed by the city of New Bedford.

     Other pedestrian and bicycle safety improvements under this alternative include:

         ·   Construction of a sidewalk along the southern side of Kempton Street leading up
             to the intersection;
         ·   The installation of longitudinal crosswalks at all approaches and across the
             northbound right-turn bay with ADA-compliant curb ramps and detectable
             warning panels;
         ·   The inclusion of proper pedestrian signage at each crossing, including pedestrian
             signal explanatory signs (R-10-3i) shown in Figure 16 and "turning vehicles yield
             to pedestrians" signs (R10-15);
         ·   Installation of a "no right-turn" sign (R3-1) at the eastbound approach;
         ·   Installation of a yield sign and yield pavement markings at the approach to the
             crosswalk across the northbound right-turn bay;
         ·   Reduction of the median at the westbound approach so it does not interfere
             with the crosswalk and the re-striping of the crosswalk further east so it is not in
             the traveled way of the intersection;
         ·   Constructing two curb-ramps at both the northeast and southeast corners of the
             intersection to eliminate the inappropriate apex curb ramps that exist on these
             corners;
         ·   Installation of Accessible Pedestrian Signals that enable audible push-button
             locators and audible walk/don't walk phases to work with the concurrent
             pedestrian phases;
         ·   Clearing and maintenance of overgrown brush on the northeast corner of the
             intersection to maximize sight distance of both vehicles and pedestrians;

20                        Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
    ·   "T-off " the right-turn slip ramp from Kempton Street to Sixth Street to slow
        down vehicular traffic making the turn;
    ·   Tighten the northbound right-turn lane and bay on Pleasant Street to slow down
        vehicular traffic making the turn;
    ·   Pedestrian education, specifically for the residents of the surrounding high-rise
        apartments, in the necessary and proper use of pedestrian accommodation;
    ·   Formal bicycle lanes on Kempton Street, Mill Street and Sixth Street;
    ·   Bicycle detectors at all four approaches to the intersection; and
    ·   A multi-use path from the southeast corner of the Octopus paralleling Route
        6 to the JFK Highway to connect to the JFK Highway Bike Path currently under
        construction.

Figure 17 illustrates the recommended vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian improvements
under Alternative A. Of particular importance are the new signage recommendations,
highlighted by their official sign number in the MUTCD.




Figure 17:
Recommended Pedestrian Improvements, Pavement Markings and Signage

Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   21
 To better illustrate the new signage and pavement markings from a motorist's perspective, Figures 18 through 21, on the
following pages, depict each approach (westbound, eastbound, southbound and northbound) with a rendering of these
recommendations.




                                                                                            Figure 18:
                                                                                            Route 6 Westbound Approach
                                                                                            Improvements Illustrated




Figure 19:
Kempton Street Eastbound Approach
Improvements Illustrated

       22                                           Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
Figure 20:
Pleasant Street Southbound Approach
Improvements Illustrated




                                         Figure 21:
                                         Pleasant Street Northbound Approach
                                         Improvements Illustrated

Alternative B

This is a long-term consideration that does not provide much additional benefit to the intersection and surrounding area
in order to justify its higher cost. A traffic signal at the Purchase Street/Route 18 off-ramp along with the proper signage
on Route 18 would be vital to this scenario functioning properly.


Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford                           23
      Table 4 summarizes existing and future conditions at the intersection under a
      no-build scenario (no improvements) and improvement alternatives A and B.
      As illustrated in Table 4 above, Alternatives A and B result in the same Level
      of Service in 2012 with only a few seconds of difference in delay per vehicle.
      Alternative B would require involvement by MassDOT and the Federal Highway
      Administration (FHWA) since Route 18 and Route 6 are on the National
      Highway System (NHS). Alternative A is much more cost-effective and could
      be implemented with limited construction. Therefore, Alternative A is the
      preferred recommendation of this study.

     Table 4:
     PM Peak Hour Intersection Expected LOS for Present and Future Conditions

      Alternave                                   2012 LOS (Delay)      2035 LOS (Delay)
      No Build                                         E (62)                E (76)
      (Alt A) Opmize Signal Timings and                  D (49)                 E (56)
      Update Pavement Markings
      (Alt B) Close the Route 18SB>Route                 D (47)                 D (50)
      6WB Ramp

      Implementation Plan

      The Octopus intersection is owned by the city of New Bedford and therefore, a
      majority of the implementation of improvements recommended would be the
      responsibility of the city. Alternative A, the replacement of the existing signal
      system, would be the responsibility of the city of New Bedford and include
      the bicycle and pedestrian improvements. Alternative B, the closing of the
      Route 18 ramp, would require input, approval and project development by the
      Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDOT) and FHWA since Route
      18 is a state-owned highway and as with Route 6, is part of the National Highway
      System.

      The intersection is eligible for federal funding and therefore, improvements
      could be funded through the Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) using a
      variety of sources, including:

           ·   Surface Transportation Funds;
           ·   Congestion Mitigation/Air Quality Improvement (CMAQ) Funds-for
               projects that demonstrate an air quality improvement; and
           ·   Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP) ­ for projects that
               demonstrate the potential for reduction in crashes.

      The city should consult SRPEDD's Transportation Project Funding Guide for
      further guidance on funding sources and project development using the
      Transportation Improvement Program. Utilizing TIP funds requires design
      approval and project oversight by MassDOT. The city also has the option of
      using Chapter 90 funds to implement the recommended improvements under
      Alternative A, allowing for the greatest flexibility of implementation.

      New Bedford needs to commit to redesign the signal system, leading to its
      replacement that will address both traffic and pedestrian needs. It should be
      capable of addressing occasional daily bridge openings to effectively clear the

24                  Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District
gridlock that can occur. MassDOT and both New Bedford and Fairhaven should
prioritize the eventual replacement of the Bridge with a more efficient/reliable
span to minimize the frequent and often excessive delays that hinder traffic
flow into and out of the Central Business District, as well as emergency vehicles
between Fairhaven and New Bedford.

The City should also ensure that vehicle preemption equipment, such as
Opticom, is included in the signal system to accommodate the nearby fire
station. The city should also plan to regularly maintain pavement markings
following installation so they remain prominent. The city should also begin to
address the issues with the pedestrian overpass to make it more user friendly.




Pleasant Street-Kempton Street-Mill Street-Sixth Street-Route 6 Intersection Study, New Bedford   25
                                                       Appendix A - Public Outreach

In preparation for the study, SRPEDD initiated a broad public outreach effort. Transportation staff went door to door
in the downtown area distributing flyers announcing the study and a public outreach meeting. This provided an
opportunity for staff to speak with residents and businesses to encourage attendance at the public outreach meeting.

Flyers were also mailed to all abutter's of the intersection and SRPEDD delivered flyers to all residents of the Regency, the
New Bedford Hotel Apartments and Melville Towers. A press release was circulated and appeared in the New Bedford
Standard-Times on January 20, 2012. Staff were also interviewed by radio station WBSM on January 25, 2012, with
subsequent airings leading up to the public meeting. Following the meeting, a second newspaper article appeared in the
New Bedford Standard Times highlighting the issues discussed at the meeting.

The public meeting held at the New Bedford Free Public Library on February 1, 2012 included extensive comments
and discussion from several residents on the many issues encounter at the intersection. SRPEDD conducted a separate
meeting at Melville Towers to hear the concerns from the residents because the complex connects directly to the
pedestrian overpass. In addition, two of the 3 pedestrian crashes at the intersection, discussed later in this report,
involved residents from this complex.

As a result of the two meetings, staff identified several issues to investigate while conducting the study of the
intersection. This includes frequent users of the intersection expressing identical complaints and concerns on driving
and/or walking through the intersection. These common complaints are summarized into the following five major
concerns:

    1   The pedestrian bridge is not `user-friendly' with many residents citing this concern as to why it is not utilized
        more. Contributing factors to the low use include insufficient lighting, vagrants and homeless persons loitering
        beneath the bridge and that it is too steep to navigate safely.
    2   The green arrow for right turns at the traffic signal for Route 6 westbound confuses pedestrians and motorist on
        who has the right-of-way. While the southbound Pleasant Street approach is green, the green arrow for Route 6
        westbound right turns is also activated. There is a "No Turn on Red" sign for the westbound Route 6 right turns.
        Motorists are accustomed to making the right turn with the green arrow. Unfortunately, motorists continue
        to make this particular turn when the green arrow is deactivated. When this occurs, they are violating the "No
        Turn on Red" prohibition. This creates confusion for drivers and pedestrians resulting in a potentially dangerous
        situation. In one instance, a pedestrian was nearly run over and killed by a heavy multi-axle truck making the
        right turn.
    3   A lack of a police presence to enforce motor vehicle laws exists at this location. Increased police enforcement
        is needed, especially in relation to the violation at the Route 6 westbound approach and motorists ignoring the
        "No Turn on Red" prohibition.
    4   The pedestrian light cycle at the intersection is not adequate to allow pedestrians to safely cross the street.
        Numerous residents complained about this particular signal timing. This issue is amplified for elderly or mobility
        impaired pedestrians.
    5   A surprising revelation at these meetings was the number of people that admitted to regularly walking through
        this intersection without using the pedestrian signal. This indicated that in addition to any modifications to
        the signal system, pedestrian education especially for the residents of the surrounding high-rises should be
        considered as part of the mitigation.
SRPEDD Announces a Study of the "Octopus" in New Bedford.

The intersection of Route 6,
Kempton Street, Mill Street,
Pleasant Street and Sixth Street
(known as the "Octopus") is a
congestion problem, as well as a
safety problem, for vehicles and
pedestrians alike.

Due to these problems we are
conducting an extensive study of
this intersection. This will include
looking at crash reports, vehicle
traffic and foot traffic.

  If you live nearby or if you drive or walk through the `Octopus'
regularly, we want to hear from you. Please tell us what you think
                           the problems are.
          Please come to our public outreach meeting:
                The New Bedford Free Public Library
                          613 Pleasant Street
                   Wednesday, February 1, 2012
                             4 pm to 6 pm

Call us: 508 824-1367                        By postal mail: 88 Broadway
Fax us: 508 823-1803                                         Taunton, MA 02780
e-mail: lcabral@srpedd.org                   or visit: www.srpedd.org

   We are looking for your comments and suggestions.
             Se você preferir esto traduzido em Português, por favor ligue para nos.
                       Si desea que esta traducido al espanol, llamenos.




Please contact Lilia Cabral 508 824-1367 ext. 235 with any access or language
accommodation requests by Feb 27, 2012.
          Appendix B - Traffic Analysis




Turning Movement Counts

    Synchro Analysis
                                                             SRPEDD
                                             88 Broadway
                                          Taunton, MA 02780
Route 18 SB Ramp Traffic at Route 6 WB Approach
                                            508-824-1367                                        File Name    : nb-18sb-6wb-ramp
Jackie/Lisa                                                                                     Site Code    : 00001234
                                                                                                Start Date   : 2/15/2012
                                                                                                Page No      :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted

                                                                          Westbound
                            Start Time              Right               Thru             Left        App. Total         Int. Total
                            04:00 PM                   3                   8              33                44                 44
                            04:15 PM                   8                  11              41                60                 60
                            04:30 PM                   7                  10              24                41                 41
                            04:45 PM                   7                  14              38                59                 59
                                  Total               25                  43             136               204                204

                          Grand Total                 25                  43             136               204               204
                            Apprch %                 12.3                21.1            66.7
                             Total %                 12.3                21.1            66.7              100




                                                                          Westbound
                               Start Time            Right              Thru             Left        App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 04:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
                                04:00 PM                 3                  8             33                 44                44
                                04:15 PM                 8                 11             41                 60                60
                                04:30 PM                 7                 10             24                 41                41
                                04:45 PM                 7                 14
                           Total Volume                 25                 43             136              204               204
                            % App. Total              12.3               21.1            66.7
                                     PHF              .781               .768            .829             .850               .850
                                                                      SRPEDD
                                                                          88 Broadway
                                                                       Taunton, MA 02780
SRPEDD                                                                   508-824-1367                             File Name          : nb-rte18sb-purchase
New Bedford                                                                                                       Site Code          : 00000022
Rte 18 SB Off-ramp @ Purchase St                                                                                  Start Date         : 2/15/2012
Adam                                                                                                              Page No            :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          Purchase St                       Rte 18 SB Off-ramp                Purchase St                        Glaser Glass Dvwy
                          Southbound                            Westbound                      Northbound                            Eastbound
 Start Time      Right    Thru   Left     App. Total   Right Thru      Left App. Total Right Thru     Left    App. Total   Right Thru       Left App. Total Int. Total
     04:00 PM        0      98     0            98        12      1     55        68       0    99      0           99         0       0      0          0        265
     04:15 PM        0      71     0            71         8      0     72        80       0    77      0           77         0       0      0          0        228
     04:30 PM        0      81     0            81        15      0     60        75       0    81      1           82         0       0      0          0        238
     04:45 PM        0      62     0            62        14      0     62        76       0    88      0           88         0       0      0          0        226
         Total       0     312     0           312        49      1    249       299       0   345      1          346         0       0      0          0        957

   Grand Total       0     312        0        312       49       1    249      299       0     345      1         346         0       0       0          0       957
    Apprch %         0     100        0                16.4     0.3   83.3                0    99.7    0.3                     0       0       0
      Total %        0    32.6        0       32.6      5.1     0.1     26     31.2       0    36.1    0.1        36.2         0       0       0          0




                           Purchase St                    Rte 18 SB Off-ramp                   Purchase St                      Glaser Glass Dvwy
                            Southbound                        Westbound                         Northbound                          Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru       Left App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right Thru      Left App. Total Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 04:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM          0      98       0        98      12       1     55        68        0      99      0          99        0        0       0          0       265
    04:15 PM          0      71       0        71       8       0     72        80        0      77      0          77        0        0       0          0       228
    04:30 PM          0      81       0        81      15       0     60        75        0      81      1          82        0        0       0          0       238
    04:45 PM          0      62       0        62      14       0     62        76        0      88      0          88        0        0       0          0       226
 Total Volume         0     312       0       312      49       1    249       299        0     345      1         346        0        0       0          0       957
 % App. Total         0     100       0              16.4     0.3   83.3                  0    99.7    0.3                    0        0       0
          PHF     .000     .796    .000      .796    .817    .250   .865      .934     .000    .871   .250        .874     .000     .000    .000       .000      .903
                                                                    SRPEDD
                                                                     88 Broadway
                                                                  Taunton, MA 02780
SRPEDD                                                                                           File Name           : nb kempton@pleasantpurchase
New Bedford-Kempton St @ Pleasant St                                                             Site Code           : 66677712
Mike/Ryan                                                                                        Start Date          : 6/23/2009
Cloudy                                                                                           Page No             :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          Pleasant St                       Route 6                      Pleasant St                                 Kempton St
                          Southbound                       Westbound                     Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time       Right   Thru     Left   Peds    Right    Thru    Left Peds Right       Thru     Left             Peds      Right   Thru    Left     Peds Int. Total
     03:30 PM        11     49      21       5       48      50     84      2      26      95      21                 1         20     46     56         2       537
     03:45 PM        13     84      25       2       36      30     86      3      24      78      35                 1         24     48     61         2       552
         Total       24    133      46       7       84      80    170      5      50     173      56                 2         44     94    117         4      1089

     04:00 PM       15      77      27        5     47       37     81            2      36      113      33            2      31      46     73           1         626
     04:15 PM       14      62       8        1     22       33     44            1      15       83      34            4      20      23     68           5         437
     04:30 PM       10      59      17        3     49       59    109            0      39       94      26            1      22      71     61           1         621
     04:45 PM       17      72      19        2     42       39     98            0      28       80      34            1      24      50     49           2         557
         Total      56     270      71       11    160      168    332            3     118      370     127            8      97     190    251           9        2241

     05:00 PM        14      79      20       1      42      49      92           0        25      98      38          5       11      38      52          2         566
     05:15 PM        17      78      14       2      13      33      54           0        10      81      19          2       23      40      55          1         442
   Grand Total     111     560     151      21      299    330     648            8      203     722     240         17       175    362     475         16         4338
    Apprch %      13.2     66.4    17.9     2.5    23.3    25.7    50.4         0.6     17.2     61.1    20.3        1.4       17    35.2    46.2        1.6
       Total %      2.6    12.9     3.5     0.5      6.9    7.6    14.9         0.2       4.7    16.6     5.5        0.4        4     8.3    10.9        0.4




                            Pleasant St                     Route 6                              Pleasant St                          Kempton St
                            Southbound                     Westbound                             Northbound                           Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left    App. Total   Right    Thru    Left    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 03:30 PM to 05:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
    04:00 PM        15       77      27       119      47   37     81          165       36      113      33         182       31      46     73         150         616
    04:15 PM        14       62       8        84      22   33     44           99       15       83      34         132       20      23     68         111         426
    04:30 PM        10       59      17        86      49   59    109          217       39       94      26         159       22      71     61         154         616
    04:45 PM        17       72      19       108      42   39     98          179       28       80      34         142       24      50     49         123         552
 Total Volume       56      270      71       397     160  168    332          660      118      370     127         615       97     190    251         538        2210
 % App. Total     14.1       68    17.9              24.2 25.5   50.3                  19.2     60.2    20.7                   18    35.3   46.7
          PHF     .824     .877    .657      .834    .816 .712   .761         .760     .756     .819    .934        .845     .782    .669   .860        .873         .897
NEW BEDFORD                                                                 Rte 18 SB Off-ramp @ Purchase St
2012 PM Peak Hour                                                                     Rte 18SB>6EB Ramp Closure, Signal



Movement                  EBL       EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR    NBL         NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)       1900       1900    1900    1900     1900    1900 1900          1900    1900   1900   1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                                            4.0     4.0                4.0                   4.0
Lane Util. Factor                                             1.00    1.00               1.00                  1.00
Frt                                                           1.00    0.85               1.00                  1.00
Flt Protected                                                 0.95    1.00               1.00                  1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                                            1774    1583               1863                  1863
Flt Permitted                                                 0.95    1.00               1.00                  1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                                            1774    1583               1861                  1863
Volume (vph)                 0         0       0     331         1      49    1          345       0      0    312       0
Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.92      0.92    0.92     0.93     0.93    0.93 0.87          0.87   0.87   0.80    0.80   0.80
Adj. Flow (vph)              0         0       0     356         1      53    1          397       0      0    390       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)         0         0       0        0        0      34    0             0      0      0       0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)        0         0       0        0     357       19    0          398       0      0    390       0
Turn Type              custom                       Perm             Perm Perm
Protected Phases                                                 8                         2                     6
Permitted Phases             4                         8                8         2
Actuated Green, G (s)                                         12.2   12.2               14.2                  14.2
Effective Green, g (s)                                        13.2   13.2               15.2                  15.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                                            0.36   0.36               0.42                  0.42
Clearance Time (s)                                             5.0    5.0                5.0                   5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                                          3.0    3.0                3.0                   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                                            643    574                777                   778
v/s Ratio Prot                                                                                                0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                                                0.20   0.03              c0.21
v/c Ratio                                                     0.56   0.03               0.51                  0.50
Uniform Delay, d1                                              9.3    7.5                7.9                   7.8
Progression Factor                                            1.00   1.00               1.00                  1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                                          1.0    0.0                0.6                   0.5
Delay (s)                                                     10.3    7.5                8.4                   8.3
Level of Service                                                 B      A                  A                     A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0                       9.9                       8.4                   8.3
Approach LOS                           A                         A                         A                     A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     8.9          HCM Level of Service                   A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                 0.53
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    36.4          Sum of lost time (s)                  8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization          44.0%           ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                          15
c Critical Lane Group




SRPEDD
NEW BEDFORD                                                                   Rte 18 SB Off-ramp @ Purchase St
2012 PM Peak Hour                                                                        Rte 18SB>6EB Ramp Closure



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                      Stop                    Free                  Free
Grade                                0%                        0%                      0%                    0%
Volume (veh/h)                0        0        0    331         1      49       1     345      0      0     312      0
Peak Hour Factor           0.92     0.92     0.92    0.93     0.93    0.93    0.87    0.87   0.87   0.80    0.80   0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0        0        0    356         1      53       1     397      0      0     390      0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                   4
Median type                         None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     816       789      390     789      789     397     390                   397
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         816       789      390     789      789     397     390                   397
tC, single (s)              7.1       6.5      6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2     4.1                   4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      3.5       4.0      3.3     3.5      4.0     3.3     2.2                   2.2
p0 queue free %            100       100      100        0     100      92     100                   100
cM capacity (veh/h)        271       323      658     308      323     653    1169                  1162
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1          NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                  0  410          398     390
Volume Left                   0   356            1       0
Volume Right                  0    53            0       0
cSH                       1700   337         1169    1700
Volume to Capacity         0.00 1.22          0.00    0.23
Queue Length (ft)             0  444             0       0
Control Delay (s)           0.0 155.0          0.0     0.0
Lane LOS                      A     F            A
Approach Delay (s)          0.0 155.0          0.0    0.0
Approach LOS                  A     F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 53.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization           44.0%           ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                           15




SRPEDD
NEW BEDFORD                                                                   Rte 18 SB Off-ramp @ Purchase St
2012 PM Peak Hour


Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                      Stop                    Free                  Free
Grade                                0%                        0%                      0%                    0%
Volume (veh/h)                0        0        0    249         1      49       1     345      0      0     312      0
Peak Hour Factor           0.92     0.92     0.92    0.93     0.93    0.93    0.87    0.87   0.87   0.80    0.80   0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)        0        0        0    268         1      53       1     397      0      0     390      0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)                                                   4
Median type                         None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume     816       789      390     789      789     397     390                   397
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol         816       789      390     789      789     397     390                   397
tC, single (s)              7.1       6.5      6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2     4.1                   4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      3.5       4.0      3.3     3.5      4.0     3.3     2.2                   2.2
p0 queue free %            100       100      100      13      100      92     100                   100
cM capacity (veh/h)        271       323      658     308      323     653    1169                  1162
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1          NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                  0 322           398     390
Volume Left                   0 268              1       0
Volume Right                  0   53             0       0
cSH                       1700  358          1169    1700
Volume to Capacity         0.00 0.90          0.00    0.23
Queue Length (ft)             0 223              0       0
Control Delay (s)           0.0 59.7           0.0     0.0
Lane LOS                      A    F             A
Approach Delay (s)          0.0 59.7           0.0    0.0
Approach LOS                  A    F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 17.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization           39.5%           ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                           15




SRPEDD
NEW BEDFORD
Kempton St/Mill St @ Pleasant St                                                                                2008 AM Peak



Movement                   EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL       SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0              4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00             0.95
Frt                        1.00      1.00             1.00     1.00     0.85    1.00     1.00    0.85             0.97
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00             0.95     1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00             0.99
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      1863             1770     1863     1583    1770     3539    1583             3427
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00             0.95     1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00             0.99
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      1863             1770     1863     1583    1770     3539    1583             3427
Volume (vph)               252       117        0     379      169      143       78     239       57     51      296      72
Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.87      0.87    0.87     0.72     0.72     0.72    0.92     0.92    0.92   0.85      0.85   0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)            290       134        0     526      235      199       85     260       62     60      348      85
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0       0        0        0        0       0        0      54      0         0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      290       134        0     526      235      199       85     260        8      0      493       0
Turn Type                  Split                      Split           pm+ov     Split           Perm    Split
Protected Phases              4        4                 8       8         6       2       2               6        6
Permitted Phases                                                           8                       2
Actuated Green, G (s)     21.3      21.3              30.5    30.5      51.3   13.1 13.1        13.1              20.8
Effective Green, g (s)    22.3      22.3              31.5    31.5      53.3   14.1 14.1        14.1              21.8
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.21      0.21              0.30    0.30      0.50   0.13 0.13        0.13              0.21
Clearance Time (s)         5.0       5.0               5.0     5.0       5.0    5.0   5.0        5.0               5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0       3.0               3.0     3.0       3.0    3.0   3.0        3.0               3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        373       393               527     555       798    236   472        211               707
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.16      0.07             c0.30    0.13      0.05   0.05 c0.07                        c0.14
v/s Ratio Perm                                                          0.07                    0.04
v/c Ratio                  0.78     0.34              1.00    0.42      0.25   0.36     0.55    0.04              0.70
Uniform Delay, d1          39.4     35.5              37.1    29.8      14.9   41.7     42.8    39.9              38.9
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00      1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00              1.00
Incremental Delay, d2       9.8      0.5              38.4     0.5       0.2    0.9      1.4     0.1               3.0
Delay (s)                  49.2     36.0              75.5    30.3      15.0   42.6     44.2    40.0              41.9
Level of Service              D        D                 E       C         B      D        D       D                 D
Approach Delay (s)                  45.0                      51.9                      43.2                      41.9
Approach LOS                           D                         D                         D                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                     46.9        HCM Level of Service                     D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                  0.80
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                    105.7        Sum of lost time (s)                  16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization           59.1%         ICU Level of Service                     B
Analysis Period (min)                           15
c Critical Lane Group




                                                                   HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
*Signal timings based on field observations. Actual timings may vary.                                    Page 1
SRPEDD
NEW BEDFORD                                                                                                       No-build
Kempton St/Mill St @ Pleasant St                                                                               2035 PM Peak



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR    WBL      WBT      WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL       SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900   1900     1900     1900    1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0            4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00              0.95
Frt                        1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     0.85    1.00     1.00    0.85              0.98
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00              0.99
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      1863           1770     1863     1583    1770     3539    1583              3434
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00              0.99
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      1863           1770     1863     1583    1770     3539    1583              3434
Volume (vph)               284       215       0    376      190      181     144      419     134       80      306      63
Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.87      0.87   0.87    0.76     0.76     0.76    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.83      0.83   0.83
Adj. Flow (vph)            326       247       0    495      250      238     169      493     158       96      369      76
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0      0       0        0        0       0        0     118       0         0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      326       247       0    495      250      238     169      493       40       0      541       0
Turn Type                  Split                    Split           pm+ov     Split           Perm     Split
Protected Phases              4        4               8       8         6       2       2                6        6
Permitted Phases                                                         8                        2
Actuated Green, G (s)     25.2      25.2            30.2     30.2     60.4   24.2 24.2         24.2              30.2
Effective Green, g (s)    26.2      26.2            31.2     31.2     62.4   25.2 25.2         25.2              31.2
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.19      0.19            0.23     0.23     0.45   0.18 0.18         0.18              0.23
Clearance Time (s)         5.0       5.0             5.0      5.0      5.0    5.0   5.0         5.0               5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0       3.0             3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0   3.0         3.0               3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        338       356             403      424      720    325   650         291               781
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.18      0.13           c0.28     0.13     0.08   0.10 c0.14                         c0.16
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        0.08                     0.10
v/c Ratio                  0.96     0.69            1.23     0.59     0.33   0.52     0.76     0.14              0.69
Uniform Delay, d1          55.0     51.8            53.0     47.3     24.0   50.5     53.1     46.9              48.6
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00            1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00              1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      39.2      5.8           122.8      2.1      0.3    1.5      5.1      0.2               2.7
Delay (s)                  94.2     57.5           175.8     49.4     24.3   52.0     58.2     47.1              51.3
Level of Service              F        E               F        D        C      D        E        D                 D
Approach Delay (s)                  78.4                    107.0                     54.8                       51.3
Approach LOS                           E                        F                        D                          D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                  76.4         HCM Level of Service                      E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio               0.92
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                 137.2         Sum of lost time (s)                   23.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization       100.0%          ICU Level of Service                      F
Analysis Period (min)                        15
c Critical Lane Group




                                                                   HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
*Signal timings based on field observations. Actual timings may vary.                                    Page 1
SRPEDD
NEW BEDFORD                                                                                            Optimized, WBTL
Kempton St/Mill St @ Pleasant St                                                                                2009 PM Peak



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR    WBL      WBT      WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR       SBL       SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900   1900     1900     1900    1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0            4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0               4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      1.00           0.95     0.95     1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00               0.95
Frt                        1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     0.85    1.00     1.00    0.85               0.98
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00           0.95     0.98     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00               0.99
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      1863           1681     1740     1583    1770     3539    1583               3434
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00           0.95     0.98     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00               0.99
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      1863           1681     1740     1583    1770     3539    1583               3434
Volume (vph)               251       190       0    332      168      160     127      370     118        71      270      56
Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.87      0.87   0.87    0.76     0.76     0.76    0.85     0.85    0.85     0.83      0.83   0.83
Adj. Flow (vph)            289       218       0    437      221      211     149      435     139        86      325      67
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0      0       0        0        0       0        0     113        0         0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      289       218       0    321      337      211     149      435       26        0      478       0
Turn Type                  Split                    Split           pm+ov     Split           Perm      Split
Protected Phases              4        4               8       8         6       2       2                 6        6
Permitted Phases                                                         8                        2
Actuated Green, G (s)     26.2      26.2           30.6 30.6          60.7   23.1 23.1         23.1               30.1
Effective Green, g (s)    27.2      27.2           31.6 31.6          62.7   24.1 24.1         24.1               31.1
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.21      0.21           0.24 0.24          0.48   0.19 0.19         0.19               0.24
Clearance Time (s)         5.0       5.0            5.0   5.0          5.0    5.0   5.0         5.0                5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0       3.0            3.0   3.0          3.0    3.0   3.0         3.0                3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        370       390            409   423          763    328   656         293                822
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.16      0.12           0.19 c0.19         0.07   0.08 c0.12                          c0.14
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        0.07                     0.09
v/c Ratio                  0.78     0.56           0.78     0.80      0.28   0.45     0.66     0.09               0.58
Uniform Delay, d1          48.6     46.0           46.0     46.2      20.1   47.1     49.2     43.8               43.7
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00           1.00     1.00      1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00               1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      10.3      1.7            9.5     10.0       0.2    1.0      2.5      0.1                1.1
Delay (s)                  58.8     47.8           55.5     56.2      20.3   48.1     51.7     44.0               44.8
Level of Service              E        D              E        E         C      D        D        D                  D
Approach Delay (s)                  54.1                    47.2                      49.5                        44.8
Approach LOS                           D                       D                         D                           D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                  48.8         HCM Level of Service                      D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio               0.71
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                 130.0         Sum of lost time (s)                   16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization       100.0%          ICU Level of Service                      F
Analysis Period (min)                        15
c Critical Lane Group




                                                                        HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
                                                                                                              Page 1
SRPEDD
NEW BEDFORD                                                                                          Roundabout
Kempton St/Mill St @ Pleasant St                                                                     2009 PM Peak



Movement                EBL         EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL      SBT    SBR
Right Turn Channelized                      Yes                                         Yes
Volume (veh/h)          251         190        0    332    168    160    127    370     118     71     270      56
Peak Hour Factor        0.87        0.87    0.87    0.76   0.76   0.76   0.85   0.85   0.85   0.83     0.83   0.83
Hourly flow rate (vph)  289         218        0    437    221    211    149    435     139     86     325      67
Approach Volume (veh/h)             507                    868                  585                     478
Crossing Volume (veh/h)             848                    873                  592                     807
High Capacity (veh/h)               705                    691                  867                     729
High v/c (veh/h)                    0.72                   1.26                 0.67                   0.66
Low Capacity (veh/h)                554                    541                  695                     574
Low v/c (veh/h)                     0.92                   1.60                 0.84                   0.83
Intersection Summary
Maximum v/c High                             1.26
Maximum v/c Low                              1.60
Intersection Capacity Utilization          63.3%       ICU Level of Service              B




                                                                  HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
                                                                                                          Page 1
SRPEDD
NEW BEDFORD
Kempton St/Mill St @ Pleasant St                                                                               2009 PM Peak



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR    WBL      WBT      WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL       SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900      1900    1900   1900     1900     1900    1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)         4.0       4.0            4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0
Lane Util. Factor          1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     0.95    1.00              0.95
Frt                        1.00      1.00           1.00     1.00     0.85    1.00     1.00    0.85              0.98
Flt Protected              0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00              0.99
Satd. Flow (prot)         1770      1863           1770     1863     1583    1770     3539    1583              3434
Flt Permitted              0.95      1.00           0.95     1.00     1.00    0.95     1.00    1.00              0.99
Satd. Flow (perm)         1770      1863           1770     1863     1583    1770     3539    1583              3434
Volume (vph)               251       190       0    332      168      160     127      370     118       71      270      56
Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.87      0.87   0.87    0.76     0.76     0.76    0.85     0.85    0.85    0.83      0.83   0.83
Adj. Flow (vph)            289       218       0    437      221      211     149      435     139       86      325      67
RTOR Reduction (vph)          0         0      0       0        0        0       0        0     115       0         0      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)      289       218       0    437      221      211     149      435       24       0      478       0
Turn Type                  Split                    Split           pm+ov     Split           Perm     Split
Protected Phases              4        4               8       8         6       2       2                6        6
Permitted Phases                                                         8                        2
Actuated Green, G (s)     25.2      25.2            30.3    30.3      60.6   22.7 22.7         22.7              30.3
Effective Green, g (s)    26.2      26.2            31.3    31.3      62.6   23.7 23.7         23.7              31.3
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.19      0.19            0.23    0.23      0.46   0.17 0.17         0.17              0.23
Clearance Time (s)         5.0       5.0             5.0     5.0       5.0    5.0   5.0         5.0               5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0       3.0             3.0     3.0       3.0    3.0   3.0         3.0               3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        341       359             408     429       730    309   618         276               791
v/s Ratio Prot           c0.16      0.12           c0.25    0.12      0.07   0.08 c0.12                         c0.14
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        0.07                     0.09
v/c Ratio                  0.85     0.61            1.07    0.52      0.29   0.48     0.70     0.09              0.60
Uniform Delay, d1          52.9     50.1            52.3    45.6      22.8   50.5     52.7     47.0              46.7
Progression Factor         1.00     1.00            1.00    1.00      1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00              1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      17.4      2.9            64.8     1.0       0.2    1.2      3.6      0.1               1.3
Delay (s)                  70.3     53.0           117.1    46.7      23.0   51.7     56.4     47.1              48.0
Level of Service              E        D               F       D         C      D        E        D                 D
Approach Delay (s)                  62.8                    76.3                      53.6                       48.0
Approach LOS                           E                       E                         D                          D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                  62.1         HCM Level of Service                      E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio               0.81
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                 135.8         Sum of lost time (s)                   23.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization       100.0%          ICU Level of Service                      F
Analysis Period (min)                        15
c Critical Lane Group




                                                                   HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
*Signal timings based on field observations. Actual timings may vary.                                    Page 1
SRPEDD
