           ROAD SAFETY AUDIT

Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (US Route 1)

            Town of North Attleborough
                    August 2011



                                            Prepared for:
               Massachusetts Department of Transportation




                                           Prepared by:
                         Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates
                                      38 Chauncy Street
                                      Boston, MA 02111
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




Table of Contents 

Background ................................................................................................................................. 2


Project Data................................................................................................................................. 2


Project Location Description ..................................................................................................... 3


Road Safety Audit Observations and Potential Enhancements .............................................6

     Safety Issue #1.             Signal Head Visibility......................................................................................... 6

     Safety Issue #2.             Sight Distance ..................................................................................................... 7

     Safety Issue #3.             Pavement Markings ............................................................................................ 8

     Safety Issue #4.             Intersection Geometry......................................................................................... 8

     Safety Issue #5.             Pedestrian Access ............................................................................................. 10

     Safety Issue #6.             Signal Operations.............................................................................................. 10


Recommendations ..................................................................................................................... 12




List of Appendices
Appendix A.           RSA Meeting Agenda
Appendix B.           RSA Audit Team Contact List
Appendix C.           Detailed Crash Data


List of Figures
Figure 1.       Locus Map.............................................................................................................................. 4



List of Tables
Table 1.        Participating Audit Team Members ....................................................................................... 3

Table 2.        Summary of Potential Safety Enhancements ....................................................................... 14





                                                                                                                                             Page 1
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




Background
The intersection of Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (US Route 1) in the Town of North
Attleborough, Massachusetts, is within the top 5% of High Crash Locations in the Southeastern Regional
Planning and Economic Development District (SRPEDD). SRPEDD and the Town contacted the
Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDOT) district office to request assistance in assessing
safety at the location. This location is eligible to receive Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP)
funding for construction of improvements.

The RSA is intended to identify potential safety improvements that can be evaluated and included as part
of the design process. The short-term, low-cost potential improvements could be considered by the
responsible agency for implementation prior to reconstruction, as appropriate.


Project Data
The audit team conducted an RSA for the intersection of Chestnut Street/East Washington Street on
Tuesday, August 2, 2011. The RSA agenda appears in Appendix A. Table 1 lists the audit team
members and their affiliations. Appendix B provides contact information for all team members.




                                                                                               Page 2
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




 Table 1. Participating Audit Team Members
 Audit Team Member                                 Agency/Affiliation
 Bill McDowell                                     North Attleborough DPW
 Mark Hollowell                                    North Attleborough DPW
 Peter Lamb                                        North Attleborough Fire Department
 Mark Fisher                                       North Attleborough Town Administrator
 Mary Burgess                                      North Attleborough Planning Board
 Promise Otaluka                                   FHWA
 Joan Marchitto                                    Board of Selectmen/SRPEDD Commissioner
 Lisa Estrela-Pedro                                SRPEDD
 Christopher Cardaci                               SRPEDD
 Barbara Lachance                                  MassDOT District 5 Traffic
 Alex Lovejoy                                      MassDOT District 5 Traffic
 Edward Feeney                                     MassDOT District 5 Traffic
 Robert Gregory                                    MassDOT District 5 Project Development
 Bonnie Polin                                      MassDOT Highway Division Safety Section
 Lisa Schletzbaum                                  MassDOT Highway Division Safety Section
 Keri Pyke                                         Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates
 Jared Hite                                        Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates




Project Location Description
The intersection of Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (US Route 1) is located in the Town of North
Attleborough, Massachusetts, as shown in the aerial image in Figure 1. East Washington Street (US
Route 1) is a major north-south connector through North Attleborough, connecting to Interstate 295
(I-295), located to the south. East Washington Street is a parallel route to South Washington Street;
therefore, Chestnut Street serves as a connection between the two corridors. East Washington Street
carries approximately 10,000 vehicles per day (vpd). The land use along East Washington Street is a
combination of mixed use retail/office and residential. Chestnut Street also connects to Interstate 95(I-95)
to the east of the study area via Elm Street.

The RSA team evaluated all the approaches at the intersection of Chestnut Street/East Washington Street
(US Route 1). The roadways are categorized according to Massachusetts Department of Transportation
(MassDOT) Office of Transportation Planning functional classifications as follows:

East Washington Street (US Route 1) is a north­south principal arterial and falls under State jurisdiction.
Within the study area, East Washington Street consists of two travel lanes (a shared left-turn/through lane
and a shared through/right-turn lane) in each direction. The speed limit along East Washington Street
(US Route 1) is posted at 40 miles per hour (mph) in both directions. According to traffic data provided
by SRPEDD, the 85th percentile speeds on East Washington Street northbound and southbound are 43
mph and 40 mph, respectively.



                                                                                                  Page 3
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut St. at East Washington St. (Rte 1), North Attleboro




Figure 1.          Locus Map

                     CHURCH ST
                                      REET                                 ORNE
                                                                                  STREE
                                                                                                T
                                                                                                                                       LANDR
                                                                                                                                            Y AVENUE




                                                                                                                           T
                                                                                                                        EE
                                                                                                                      TR
                    RICHARDS




                                                                                                          NS
                                 AVENUE




                                                                                             O
                                                                                          NGT
                    BANK STREET




                                                                                       SHI
                                                                                        WA
                                                                                   EAST
                                                BRU
                                                     CE A
                                                         VEN
                                                                UE
                                         EET




                                                                                                                                                                        T
                                                                                                                                                                  REE
                                                                                                                                                              T ST
                                       STR




                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                         GRA




                                                                                                                               EL
                                    ON




                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                     ST
                                                                                                                                                                            ET
                                  GT




                                                    EET




                                                                                                                                                                         TRE




                                                                                                                                       RE
                                                                                                                                                                     ST S
                                 HIN




                                                                                                                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                          ET
                                                                                                                                                             FOR
                                                STR
                                  S
                               WA




                                               ST




                                                                                                                                               T
                           UTH




                                               EA




                                                                                                                                          R EE
                                                                                                                                       ST
                          SO




                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                 JA


                                                    CHE                                                                                Project Area
                                                          STN
                                                             UT
                                                                     STR
                                                                        EET



                                                                                                                               CHE
                                                                                                                                  STN
                                                                                                                                          UT S
                                                                                                                                                   TRE
                                                                                             EAST WASHINGTON STREET




                                                                                                                                                      ET
                                                                                              JEFFERSON STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                      N
Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.                                                                                                                                             Not to scale.
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




Chestnut Street is an east-west minor local road. Within the study area, Chestnut Street consists
of one lane (a shared left-turn/through/right-turn lane) in each direction. Although the Chestnut
Street westbound approach is one lane, it is wide enough for two lanes of queuing. The speed
limit along Chestnut Street is not posted; therefore the prime facia speed of 30 mph applies. The
85th percentile speed on Chestnut Street is 33 mph east of East Washington Street (US Route 1)
and 38 mph west of East Washington Street (US Route 1).

Prior to the RSA, in order to begin assessing possible safety issues, the team reviewed a crash
detail summary based on crash records supplied by the SRPEDD. From January 2006 through
December 2008, 44 crashes related to the intersection were reported. No fatalities were recorded
within the three-year study period. Of the 44 crashes, 17 (approximately 39%) were rear-end
type crashes, 2 (approximately 5%) were overtaking a turn type crash, 9 (approximately 20%)
were right-angle vehicle crashes, 15 (approximately 34%) were left-turning vehicle crashes, and
1 (approximately 2%) was involved with a fixed object. Crashes generally occurred on dry
pavement (31, or nearly 70%) in clear weather conditions (28, or nearly 64%) and under daylight
or lighted roadway lighting conditions (35, or nearly 80%). Of the 44 crashes with time of crash
reported, 20 (approximately 45%) occurred in the morning or afternoon hours (10:00 a.m. ­ 4:00
p.m.), and 15 (approximately 34%) occurred in the late afternoon hours (4:00 p.m. ­ 7:00 p.m.).
10 of the 44 crashes (approximately 23%) occurred in 1 hour early afternoon. Of the 44 crashes,
12 (approximately 27%) occurred on a Wednesday, and 10 (approximately 23%) occurred on the
weekend. 16% of all motorists were 65 or older and 8 % were between the ages of 17 ­ 18.
Appendix C provides the detailed crash data from January 2006 through December 2008.




                                                                                        Page 5
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




Road Safety Audit Observations and
Potential Enhancements
Based on field observations on Tuesday, August 2, 2011, the RSA team determined that the intersection
of Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (US Route 1) has the following issues that affect safety:

        Signal head visibility;

        Intersection sight distance; 

        Pavement markings;

        Intersection geometry; 

        Pedestrian access; and 

        Signal operations. 


The following sections describe in more detail the safety issues and enhancements determined during the
RSA. Several of these issues require further study and engineering judgment to determine the feasibility
of implementing enhancements to address them.

    Safety Issue #1. Signal Head Visibility
        Observations:
        Two traffic control signal faces located on a mast 

        arm structure, mounted with a hanging assembly, 

        are provided for the East Washington Street 

        southbound approach. The RSA team noted the 

        signal heads appear to be faint and difficult to view 

        when approaching the intersection, although the 

        signal heads are LED and equipped with visors. An 

        RSA team member noted that several LEDs in the 

        green and yellow indications of the signal face are 

        not illuminating and will need to be replaced. It 

        was also noted that these signal heads may have 

        been replaced with LEDs when the LED technology 
         Looking south on East Washington Street
        was first used for signal heads. 
                        (US Route1).


        The Chestnut Street eastbound approach consists of two far-side signal faces mounted on posts
        and the Chestnut Street westbound approach consists of one near-side signal face and two far-side
        signal faces mounted on posts. The visibility of these signal faces could be improved by locating
        them overhead, ensuring that they are clear of potential obstruction by signs and/or utility poles.
        None of the signal indications have back plates to improve contrast between the indications and
        the background.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




        Enhancements:
            1. Replace LEDs on the East Washington Street southbound signal indications to ensure
               adequate visibility and verify the positioning of the signal heads meets MUTCD
               requirements.

            2. In the long term, replace mast arm structure and signal heads for the East Washington
               Street southbound approach so that the signal indications are fixed-mounted.

            3. Install back plates on all signal indications to enhance the contrast between the traffic
               signal indications and their surroundings for both day and night conditions. New mast
               arms and foundations may be required due to the additional weight. The loads and
               moments on the existing mast arms will need to be checked to determine whether the
               existing mast arm foundation can handle them.

            4. Replace post-mounted signal indications with mast-arm mounted indications for the
               Chestnut Street eastbound and westbound approaches.

    Safety Issue #2. Sight Distance
        Observations:
        The RSA team noted that the sight distance from the Chestnut Street eastbound approach is
        obstructed by parked vehicles at the AAMCO. The team also noted that the presence of signs and
        posts on the southeast corner block visibility for the Chestnut Street westbound right turn
        movement. This is particularly problematic for motorists making right turns on red. The stop
        lines on both the Chestnut Street eastbound and westbound approaches are located far back from
        the intersection, which cause drivers to inch forward into the intersection to have better sight
        lines.

        The East Washington Street northbound and southbound approaches also have sight distance
        issues. The East Washington Street northbound approach's stop line is also set far back from the
        intersection partially due to the wide radius on the southeast corner. The building on the
        southeast corner blocks visibility of traffic on Chestnut Street eastbound for East Washington
        Street northbound right-turning motorists. The East Washington Street southbound approach has
        similar sight distance issues caused by the presence of shrubs on the northeast corner of the
        intersection. The stop lines on both East Washington Street approaches are not installed
        perpendicular to the path of travel, but at an angle with the right lanes located farther from the
        intersection than the left. The stop line geometry also contributes to the sight distance issues on
        the East Washington Street approaches.

        Enhancements:
            1. Relocate signs and posts further from the edge of roadway to provide adequate sight
               distance.




                                                                                                  Page 7
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




            2. Relocate the stop lines and crosswalks on the Chestnut Street eastbound and westbound
               approaches. Relocating the stop lines may impact truck turns, which should be
               considered during relocation.

            3. Relocate the stop lines and crosswalks on the East Washington Street northbound and
               southbound approaches. Relocating the stop lines may impact truck turns, which should
               be considered during relocation.

    Safety Issue #3. Pavement Markings
        Observations:
        A member of the RSA team noted left turning vehicles 

        onto East Washington Street from the Chestnut Street 

        eastbound and westbound approaches tend to create a 

        weaving movement by not turning into the closest 

        departure travel lanes. The Chestnut Street eastbound 

        left-turns exceed 200 vehicles per hour (vph) during 

        the p.m. peak and approximately 170 vph during the 

        midday peak hour. The team also noted that the 

        pavement markings and crosswalks at the intersection 

        are barely visible or missing. 


        Enhancements:
                                                                  Worn pavement markings and crosswalks
            1. Re-stripe and maintain durable pavement

               markings at the intersection, including 

               crosswalks and stop lines. 


            2. Install a new crosswalk across East Washington Street on the north side, only if
               accessible wheel chair ramps are provided and can be safely accommodated.

            3. Install lane extension markings to guide drivers to stay in the correct lanes, as
               appropriate. MassDOT typically does not install lane extension markings from a one-
               lane roadway to a multi-lane roadway. The intent of the lane extension markings is to
               clarify movements; if this cannot be accomplished, they should not be installed.

    Safety Issue #4. Intersection Geometry
        Observations:
        According to the crash data summary sheet, 15 (approximately 34%) of the 44 accidents at the
        intersection involved left-turning vehicles along East Washington Street. There are neither
        separate left-turn pockets nor protected left-turn phases provided on the East Washington Street
        northbound and southbound approaches. The permissive left-turning vehicles block the visibility
        of the oncoming through traffic. A member of the RSA team noted that it may be difficult for a



                                                                                                  Page 8
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




        left-turning motorist to judge the speed and distance of the opposing through traffic, resulting in
        crashes. Another team member noted that some through vehicles on both East Washington Street
        and Chestnut Street queue behind left-turning vehicles; therefore the through vehicle swerves to
        the right to avoid the queuing which causes (but is not involved in) the crashes. According to the
        peak hour volumes, the East Washington Street southbound approach has approximately 50
        vehicles turning left onto Chestnut Street eastbound in each of the morning and afternoon peak
        hours.

        It was noted during the RSA that vehicles frequently use the Chestnut Street westbound approach
        as two lanes due to its width at the intersection, particularly if a vehicle is waiting to turn left.
        This could cause issues with left-turning motorists from Chestnut Street eastbound, who may not
        see the vehicle coming around the left-turning vehicle on Chestnut Street eastbound.

        A median currently exists between the East Washington Street northbound and southbound
        movements north of Chestnut Street. The length of the median may interfere with the path of
        Chestnut Street eastbound left-turns. A team member noted the installation of the median may be
        to restrict left-turning movements from the abutting land uses. Reducing the length of the median
        may be necessary to improve the path for Chestnut Street eastbound left-turning vehicles. The
        Town of North Attleborough is willing and interested to participate in any discussions involving
        access management for the abutting properties.

        Enhancements:
            1. In the short term, consider installing split phasing for both East Washington Street left-
               turn movements with associated changes to the signal indications. The intersection
               capacity should be analyzed to ensure that the intersection operation is not degraded by
               the changes in signal phasing and/or timing. The capacity of the intersection should be
               evaluated to determine the appropriate signal timing and phasing. A new mast arm
               assembly may be needed for the additional signal heads due to the loading and moments
               created by the new signal heads.

            2. With the installation of split or protected left-turn phasing, additional signal heads may
               need to be located on the far side of the intersection for the East Washington Street
               northbound and southbound left-turning vehicles.

            3. In the longer term, consider installing left-turn pockets and protected left-turn phasing on
               the East Washington Street approaches. Acquisition of property may be necessary to
               provide the appropriate roadway width.

            4. Consider striping Chestnut Street westbound as two lanes for a short distance. One of the
               lanes should be designated for turning vehicles, most likely the left lane, as there is not
               space on the Chestnut Street west leg to receive two through lanes of traffic.

            5. Reduce the length of the median on East Washington Street.




                                                                                                   Page 9
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




    Safety Issue #5. Pedestrian Access
        Observations:
        The RSA team members noted that the pedestrian 

        push buttons work on all approaches; however 

        wheel chair ramps are not provided on any of the 

        approaches. The pedestrian signal heads are 

        outdated. There are a number of elderly and/or 

        disabled persons who use the intersection as a 

        connection between their residences and shopping 

        areas located to the south. 


        Enhancements:
            1. Consider installing wheel chair ramps on all 

               approaches to accommodate all pedestrians. 
      Northwest corner of the intersection without
               Also, see enhancements from Safety Issue 
        wheelchair ramps.
               #3 Pavement Markings. 


            2. Provide full pedestrian accommodation, including the latest countdown pedestrian signal
               heads, correctly-timed pedestrian phase (concurrent or exclusive based on MUTCD), and
               crosswalks. The pedestrian enhancements should accommodate all pedestrians, including
               those with mobility, sight, and hearing impairments.

    Safety Issue #6. Signal Operations
        Observations:
        The RSA team members noted that the traffic control signals along the East Washington Street
        corridor are not coordinated with the adjacent signalized intersections. Coordinating the adjacent
        traffic control signals along the corridor may improve travel times and reduce delays. A team
        member noted that several vehicles run red lights along East Washington Street. Red-light
        running may contribute to the number of rear-end and angle crashes that occur on all the
        approaches. Installing dilemma zone detection may decrease the number of accidents from
        potential red-light runners. Detectors can be placed on the intersection approaches to extend the
        green indication until the vehicle leaves the dilemma zone. An alternative is to allow the signal to
        turn yellow and then red as a vehicle is detected, and then extend the red indication for the cross
        street traffic. This strategy can be used to prevent cross street vehicles from entering the
        intersections as a driver is intentionally running the red light.

        The Chestnut Street westbound approach has a near side post mounted signal face and two far
        side post mounted signal faces. The near side signal face may be a contributor to red light
        running on the Chestnut Street westbound approach. This issue may be mitigated if the signal
        face is removed and the signal heads are installed on a new mast arm.




                                                                                                Page 10
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




        Enhancements:
            1. Review the operation of all adjacent signals along the East Washington Street corridor
               and determine if signal coordination would improve overall corridor safety and
               operations.

            2. Check the signal head visibility for vehicles approaching East Washington Street on
               Chestnut Street westbound. If appropriate, remove near side post-mounted signal head
               for the Chestnut Street westbound approach and replace with far side signal head.

            3. Investigate the installation of dilemma zone detection along East Washington Street and
               Chestnut Street.

            4. Check the traffic signal clearance intervals.

            5. Install a pre-emption control system for emergency vehicles.




                                                                                             Page 11
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




Recommendations
    The intersection of Chestnut Street/East Washington Street in the Town of North Attleborough,
    Massachusetts, is within the top 5% of High Crash Locations within SRPEDD's region. Based on its
    observations and discussions, the RSA team identified the issues and possible enhancements that
    could improve safety at the intersection of Chestnut Street/East Washington Street. Further design
    work or consideration may be necessary to determine the feasibility of making some of the
    improvements.

    Short-term enhancements include:


            Replace LED's on the East Washington Street southbound signal indications;


            Relocate signs adjacent to the Fast Signs Shop on the southeast corner; 


            Relocate stop lines and crosswalks on the Chestnut Street approaches;


            Re-stripe all pavement markings, including crosswalks and stop lines; and 


            Check the traffic signal clearance intervals. 


    Mid-term enhancements include: 


            Reduce the length of the median on East Washington Street; and 


            Install the latest countdown pedestrian signal heads. 


    To enhance the safety of the intersection, the long-term enhancements are to:

            Replace mast arm structure and signal heads for the East Washington Street southbound
            approach. Fix mount signal heads;

            Install back plates on the East Washington Street approaches' signal heads;

            Replace the post-mounted signal heads onto mast arm structures for the Chestnut Street
            approaches;

            Install new crosswalk across East Washington Street on the north side, only if accessible
            wheel chair ramps are provided;

            Install a lead protected left-turn phase for both East Washington left-turn movements.
            Additional signal heads may need to be located on the far side of the intersection;

            Install left-turn pockets with the appropriate signal heads and protected phasing on the East
            Washington Street approaches;



                                                                                                Page 12
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




            Install wheel chair ramps on all approaches;

            Coordinating the adjacent signalized intersections along the East Washington Street corridor;

            Install dilemma zone protection; and

            Install a pre-emption control system.

    Table 2 summarizes these safety issues, possible enhancements, estimated safety payoff, time frame,
    cost, and responsibility. Safety payoff estimates are based on engineering judgment and are
    categorized as low, medium, and high. The time frame is categorized as short-term (<1 year), mid-
    term (1 to 3 years), or long-term (typically >3 years). Long-term improvements are typically
    considered to be substantial improvements with an expected time frame for implementation greater
    than 3 years. The costs are categorized as low (<$10,000), medium ($10,001 to $50,000), or high
    (>$50,000). The RSA is intended to identify potential safety improvements that can be evaluated and
    included as part of the design process for the reconstruction. The short-term, low-cost potential
    improvements could be considered by the responsible agency for implementation prior to
    reconstruction.




                                                                                              Page 13
 Road Safety Audit
 Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
 Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.



 Table 2. Summary of Potential Safety Enhancements
Safety Issue      Safety Enhancement                                             Safety Payoff   Time Frame    Cost      Responsible Party
                  Replace LEDs on the East Washington Street southbound
                  signal indications to ensure adequate visibility and verify
                                                                                     High        Short-term   Medium         MassDOT
                  the positioning of signal heads meets MUTCD
                  requirements.
                  In the long term, replace mast arm structure and signal
                  heads for the East Washington Street southbound                    High        Long-term      High         MassDOT
                  approach so that the signal indications are fixed-mounted.
Signal head       Install back plates on all signal indications to enhance the
visibility        contrast between the traffic signal indications and their
                  surroundings for both day and night conditions. New mast
                                                                                                              Medium ­
                  arms and foundation may be required to handle additional           High        Long-term                   MassDOT
                                                                                                                High
                  weight. The loads and moments on the existing mast
                  arms will need to be checked to determine whether the
                  existing mast arm foundations can handle them.
                  Replace post-mounted signal indications with mast-arm
                  mounted indications for the Chestnut Street eastbound            Medium        Long-term      High         MassDOT
                  and westbound approaches.
                  Relocate signs and posts further from the edge of the                                                    Town of North
                                                                                     Low         Short-term     Low
                  roadway to provide adequate sight distance.                                                              Attleborough
                  Relocate the stop lines and crosswalks on the Chestnut
                  Street eastbound and westbound approaches. Consider              Medium        Short-term     Low          MassDOT
Sight Distance
                  truck turn impacts.
                  Relocate stop lines and crosswalks on the East
                  Washington Street northbound and southbound                      Medium        Short-term     Low          MassDOT
                  approaches. Consider truck turn impacts.




                                                                                                                                Page 14
 Road Safety Audit
 Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
 Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.



 Table 2. Summary of Potential Safety Enhancements (Continued)
Safety Issue      Safety Enhancement                                               Safety Payoff   Time Frame     Cost    Responsible Party
                  Re-stripe and maintain durable pavement markings at the
                                                                                     Medium         Short-term    Low         MassDOT
                  intersection, including crosswalks and stop lines.
                  Install a new crosswalk across East Washington Street on
Pavement          the north side, only if accessible where wheel chair ramps         Medium         Long-term    Medium       MassDOT
Markings          are provided and can be safely accommodated.
                  Install lane extension markings to guide drivers to stay in
                  correct lanes on turns. The intent of the lane extension
                                                                                     Medium         Short-term    Low         MassDOT
                  markings is to clarify movements; if this cannot be
                  accomplished, they should not be installed.
                  Install split phasing for both East Washington Street left-
                  turn movements with associated changes to the signal
                  indications. The capacity of the intersection should be
                  evaluated to determine the appropriate signal timing and             High         Short-term   Medium       MassDOT
                  phasing. A new mast-arm assembly may be needed for
                  the additional signal heads due to the loading and
                  moments created by them.
                  With installation of split phasing, install far-side signal
                  heads for the East Washington Street northbound and                Medium        Medium-term    High        MassDOT
                  southbound left-turn movements.
Intersection
                  Install left-turn pockets and protected left-turn phasing on
Geometry
                  the East Washington Street approaches. Acquisition of
                                                                                       High         Long-term     High        MassDOT
                  property may be necessary to provide the appropriate
                  roadway width.
                  Consider striping Chestnut Street westbound as two lanes
                  to provide more queuing space. One of the legs should be
                  designated for turning vehicles, most likely the left lane, as     Medium         Short-term    Low         MassDOT
                  there is not space on the Chestnut Street west leg to
                  receive two through lanes of traffic.
                  Reduce the length of the median on East Washington
                                                                                     Medium         Mid-term     Medium       MassDOT
                  Street.




                                                                                                                                 Page 15
 Road Safety Audit
 Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
 Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.



 Table 2. Summary of Potential Safety Enhancements (Continued)
Safety Issue      Safety Enhancement                                            Safety Payoff   Time Frame     Cost    Responsible Party
                  Consider installing wheel chair ramps on all approaches to
                  accommodate all pedestrians. Re-stripe existing                 Medium         Long-term    Medium       MassDOT
                  crosswalks.
Pedestrian        Provide full pedestrian accommodation, including
Access            countdown pedestrian signal heads, correctly-timed
                  pedestrian phase (concurrent or exclusive based on
                                                                                  Medium         Mid-term     Medium       MassDOT
                  MUTCD), and crosswalks. Pedestrian enhancements
                  should accommodate all pedestrians, including those with
                  mobility, sight, or hearing impairments.
                  Review the operation of all adjacent signals along the East
                  Washington Street corridor to determine if coordination         Medium         Long-term     High        MassDOT
                  would improve overall corridor safety and operations.
                  Check the signal head visibility for vehicles approaching
                  East Washington Street on Chestnut Street westbound. If
                  appropriate, remove near side post-mounted signal head            Low         Medium-term   Medium       MassDOT
Signal            for the Chestnut Street westbound approach and replace
Operations        with far side signal head.
                  Investigate the installation of dilemma zone detection
                                                                                    High         Long-term    Medium       MassDOT
                  along East Washington Street and Chestnut Street.
                  Check the traffic signal clearance intervals.                   Medium         Short-term    Low         MassDOT
                  Install a pre-emption control system for emergency
                                                                                  Medium         Long-term     High        MassDOT
                  vehicles.




                                                                                                                              Page 16
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




                     Appendix A. RSA Meeting Agenda 

                                                                    Road Safety Audit
                              North Attleborough ­ E. Washington St/Chestnut St
                                             Meeting Location: N. Attleborough Police Station
                                            102 South Washington Street, North Attleborough
                                                                     Tuesday, August 2, 2011
                                                                          9:30 AM ­ 11:30 AM



Type of meeting:      Road Safety Audit for High Crash Intersection
Attendees:            Invited Participants to Comprise a Multidisciplinary Team
Please bring:         Thoughts and Enthusiasm!!

9:30 AM               Welcome and Introductions

9:45 AM               Review of Site Specific Material
                         · Collision Diagram, Traffic Data
                         · Existing conditions and geometry

10:15 AM              Visit the Site
                         · Walk to the intersection of E. Washington Street and Chestnut Street
                         · As a group, identify areas for improvement

11:00 AM              Completion of RSA
                        · Finalize discussion on all areas for improvement
                        · Discuss potential improvements with pros and cons and record possible
                          countermeasures

11:30 AM              Adjourn for the Day ­ but the RSA has not ended

 Instructions for Participants:
   · Before attending the RSA on August 2nd, participants are encouraged to
      drive/walk through the intersection and complete/consider elements on the RSA
      Prompt List with a focus on safety.
   · All participants will be actively involved in the process throughout. Participants
      are encouraged to come with thoughts and ideas, but are reminded that the
      synergy that develops and respect for others' opinions are key elements to the
      success of the overall RSA process.
   · After the RSA meeting, participants will be asked to comment and respond to the
      document materials to assure it is reflective of the RSA completed by the
      multidisciplinary team.
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




  Appendix B. RSA Audit Team Contact List 

Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.
.




                                                   Participating Audit Team Members
   Date:      Tuesday, August 2, 2011                    Location:  North Attleborough Police Department, 102 South Washington Street,




                                                                 
                                                                    North Attleborough
   Audit Team Members           Agency/Affiliation                              E-mail Address                      Phone Number
   Bill McDowell                North Attleborough DPW                          wmcdowell@nattleboro.com            (508) 643-6636
   Mark Hollowell               North Attleborough DPW                          mhollowell@nattleboro.com           (508) 645-9621
   Peter Lamb                   North Attleborough Fire Department              plamb@nattleboro.com                (508) 699-0140
   Mark Fisher                  North Attleborough Administrator                mfisher@north-attleboro.ma.us       (508) 699-0100
   Mary Burgess                 North Attleborough Planning Board               mburgess@north-attleboro.ma.us      (508) 699-0116
   Promise Otaluka              FHWA                                            Promise.Otaluka@dot.gov             (617) 494-2528
   Joan Marchitto               Board of Selectmen/SRPEDD Commissioner          jmarchitto@nattleboro.com           (508) 699-8226
   Lisa Estrela-Pedro           SRPEDD                                          lestrela@srpedd.org                 (508) 824-1367
   Christopher Cardaci          SRPEDD                                          ccardaci@srpedd.org                 (508) 824-1367
   Barbara Lachance             MassDOT District 5 Traffic                      Barbara.Lachance@state.ma.us        (508) 884-4260
   Alex Lovejoy                 MassDOT District 5 Traffic                      alex.lovejoy@state.ma.us            (774) 219-4914
   Edward Feeney                MassDOT District 5 Traffic                      Edward.Feeney@state.ma.us           (508) 884-4242
   Robert Gregory               MassDOT District 5 Project Development          Robert.Gregory@state.ma.us          (508) 884-4245
   Bonnie Polin                 MassDOT Highway Division Safety Section         bonnie.polin@state.ma.us            (617) 973-7991
   Lisa Schletzbaum             MassDOT Highway Division Safety Section         lisa.schletzbaum@state.ma.us        (617) 973-7685
   Keri Pyke                    Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates                  kpyke@hshassoc.com                  (617) 348-3301
   Jared Hite                   Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates                  jhite@hshassoc.com                  (617) 348-3318
Road Safety Audit
Chestnut Street/East Washington Street (Route 1), North Attleborough
Prepared by Howard/Stein-Hudson Associates, Inc.




                         Appendix C. Detailed Crash Data 

                                                 COLLISION DIAGRAM
                                                                  Key Number =

MUNICIPALITY: North Attleborough                               COUNTY:     Bristol                           FILE:            NA E Was & Chest
INTERSECTION: East Washington St at Chestnut Street                                                          CASE # :
PERIOD:      3     YEARS           0    MONTHS             FROM          1/1/2006    TO   12/31/2008         BY:                    DATE:         6/23/2011

                                                                  Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                        Northbound
                                                     ___




                                                                   30




                                                                  40
                                                                  39
                                                                  12                                                           East Washington St
                                                                  11



                                                                                                                         33    34     37    38
                                                                                                                         1      2      6    13     23   32
                                                                                                  14    17   22    42



                                                 43   36   29                                                                        10
                               20      19   18   9    8    4
                   21                                                                        5    7    15    25    26   35




                                                      3
              31   28   27    24




East Washington St




                                                                                     16
                                                                                     41




                                                                                                 ___
44
                                                                   Chestnut Street

                             SYMBOLS                                                                   MANNER OF COLLISION

           MOVING VEHICLE                        P     PEDESTRIAN                          REAR END                                        HEAD ON
           TURNING VEHICLE                       B     BICYCLIST                           LEFT TURN                                       RIGHT TURN
           BACKING VEHICLE                       A     ANIMAL                              LEFT TURN                                       RIGHT TURN
           PARKED VEHICLE                              FIXED OBJECT                        OVERTAKE                                        RIGHT ANGLE
     999   RECORD NUMBER                               Fatal                               OUT OF CONTROL                                  SIDE SWIPE
                                                                                                                                                 HSA Software 3.0
                                                                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                                                              DETAILS OF ACCIDENT HISTORY
  PERIOD STUDIED:                      L                   ROUTE NUMBER/STREET NAME:              East Washington St                                  CASE No.
                             #         I   R
  FROM:       1/1/2006       V    S    G   O               LOCATION:   East Washington Street @ Chestnut Street                                       FILE:   NA E Was & Chest
                             E    E    H   A   S   W
  TO:        12/31/2008      H    V    T   D   U   E       MUNICIPALITY:     North Attleborough                COUNTY: Bristol                        BY:
                             I    E            R   A
      36     MONTHS          C    R    C   C   F   T       REFERENCE MARKERS / NODES:                                  -                              DATE:      6/23/2011
                             L    I    O   H   A   H
                             E    T    N   A   C   E
                             S    Y    D   R   E   R        CONTRIB.       ACC.
No.        DATE       TIME                                                                                       ACCIDENT DESCRIPTION                                    KEY #
                                                            FACTORS        TYPE

  1        1/5/2006 15:35 2      INJ   1       2   2                       Rend     SBT VS SBT

  2        1/6/2006 13:46 3      PDO   1       1   1                       Rend     SBT VS SBT VS SBT
  3        2/9/2006   8:35 2     INJ   1       1   1   4     17            Rang     SBT VS EBL, SBT Was Distracted & Ran Red Light
  4     2/15/2006 11:39 2        N/R   1       1   1   7                   Ltrn     NBL VS SBT

  5     2/16/2006 15:54 2        INJ   1       1   1   7                   Ltrn     NBT VS SBL
  6     3/17/2006 23:55 2        INJ   5       1   2   9                   Rend     SBT VS SBT

  7     3/24/2006 16:30 2        PDO   1       1   2   17                  Ltrn     NBT VS SBL, SBL "Had ROW due to position in intersection"
  8     4/20/2006 13:20 2        INJ   1       1   1   7                   Ltrn     SBT VS NBL
  9     5/17/2006 18:24 2        INJ   1       1   1   7                   Ltrn     SBT VS NBL

 10     7/16/2006 14:13 2        PDO   1       1   1   7                   Ovtk     SBT VS SBT, Changing lanes due to another vehicle making a turn
 11     7/23/2006 12:36 2        PDO   1       1   2   4     21            Rang     EBT VS SBT, SBT Ran Red Light

 12        8/2/2006 13:26 2      PDO   1       1   1                       Rang     SBT VS EBT, Both Claimed to Have Green Light
 13        8/4/2006 22:53 2      INJ   4       1   1   28     2            Rend     SBT VS SBT, OUI

 14     10/5/2006     9:38 2     INJ   1       1   1   17                  Rang     SBT VS WBT, SB Ran Red Light
 15 11/15/2006 18:32 2           N/R   4       2   2   7                   Ltrn     NBT VS SBL
 16 11/20/2006 15:10 2           PDO   1       1   1                       Rend     WBT VS WBT

 17 11/20/2006        4:00 2     PDO   3       1   2   17                  Rang     SBT VS WBT, SBT Ran Red Light
 18     12/2/2006 16:59 2        PDO   4       1   1   40                  Ltrn     SBT VS NBL

 19     2/14/2007 18:25 2        PDO   4       4   5   66                  Ltrn     SBT VS NBL, Due to Weather NB Veh \slid left across SB lanes
 20        3/7/2007 16:05 2      PDO   1       1   1   7                   Ltrn     SBT VS NBL
 21     5/12/2007 13:25 2        PDO   1   1       1                       Ovtk     NBT VS NBT, Lane Change

 22     5/22/2007 18:16 2        INJ   1   1       1   17                  Rang     SBT VS WBT, SB Ran Red Light
                                                                                                                                                                  HSA Software 3.0
                                                                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                                                            DETAILS OF ACCIDENT HISTORY
  PERIOD STUDIED:                    L                   ROUTE NUMBER/STREET NAME:              East Washington St                      CASE No.
                           #         I   R
  FROM:       1/1/2006     V    S    G   O               LOCATION:   East Washington Street @ Chestnut Street                           FILE:   NA E Was & Chest
                           E    E    H   A   S   W
  TO:        12/31/2008    H    V    T   D   U   E       MUNICIPALITY:     North Attleborough                COUNTY: Bristol            BY:
                           I    E            R   A
      36     MONTHS        C    R    C   C   F   T       REFERENCE MARKERS / NODES:                                    -                DATE:      6/23/2011
                           L    I    O   H   A   H
                           E    T    N   A   C   E
                           S    Y    D   R   E   R        CONTRIB.       ACC.
No.        DATE     TIME                                                                                       ACCIDENT DESCRIPTION                        KEY #
                                                          FACTORS        TYPE

 23        6/8/2007 18:32 2    INJ   1       1   1   40                  Rend     SBT VS SBT

 24        7/4/2007 21:51 2    PDO   4       2   3   19                  Rend     NBT VS NBT
 25     7/11/2007    6:28 2    PDO   1       1   2   7                   Ltrn     NBT VS SBL
 26     7/25/2007 10:08 2      PDO   1       1   1   7                   Ltrn     NBT VS SBL

 27 10/12/2007 16:05 2         PDO   1       1   1   40                  Rend     NBT VS NBT
 28     11/2/2007 14:39 2      PDO   1       1   1                       Rend     NBT VS NBT

 29     11/6/2007 16:10 2      INJ   1       2   1   7                   Ltrn     SBT VS NBL
 30 12/12/2007       7:22 2    PDO   1       1   2   4      9            Rend     EBT VS EBT, PAST INTERSECTION
 31        1/5/2008 11:40 2    PDO   1       1   1   9                   Rend     NBT VS NBT

 32     1/30/2008 13:59 2      PDO   1       2   1                       Rend     SBT VS SBT
 33        2/4/2008 10:49 2    PDO   1       1   2                       Rend     SBT VS SBT

 34     2/18/2008 18:02 2      PDO   4       2   2   4                   Rend     SBT VS SBT
 35     3/29/2008 14:17 2      PDO   1       1   1   7                   Ltrn     NBT VS SBL

 36        4/6/2008 18:55 2    PDO   1       2   3   7                   Ltrn     NBL VS SBT
 37     5/18/2008 17:22 2      PDO   1       2   3   4                   Rend     SBT VS SBT
 38     6/10/2008 13:29 2      PDO   1       1   1   4                   Rend     SBT VS SBT

 39     8/24/2008 16:51 2      PDO   1       1   1   17                  Rang     SBT VS EBT, SBT Ran Red Light
 40     12/5/2008 13:50 2      INJ   1       1   1                       Rang     SBT VS EBT, Both Claimed to have Green Light

 41 12/14/2008 17:30 2         N/R   4       1   1   4                   Rend     WBT VS WBT
 42 12/23/2008 13:44 2         INJ   1       4   1   17                  Rang     SBT VS WBT, WBT Ran Red Light - Slippery Conditions
 43 12/24/2008 13:34 2         PDO   1       2   2   40                  Ltrn     NBL VS SBT

 44 12/26/2008       9:38 1    PDO   1       1   2                       FixO     SBR Tractor Trailer Hit Light Pole
                                                                                                                                                    HSA Software 3.0
                                        ACCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET

ROUTE: East Washington St                       LOCATION: East Washington Street @ Chestnut Street
MUNICIPALITY:      North Attleborough                                           COUNTY: Bristol
TIME PERIOD COVERED:            1/1/2006 - 12/31/2008     REFERENCE MARKERS / NODES                             -
REMARKS: All Accidents                                                                                      DATE:        6/23/2011

TIME OF DAY                # ACC           %        DIRECTION         # ACC          %       DIRECTION              # ACC
 6 AM - 10 AM              5            11.4%       North             26         29.5%       Northeast              0          0.0%
10 AM - 4 PM               20           45.5%       South             46         52.3%       Northwest              0          0.0%
 4 PM - 7 PM               15           34.1%       East              7           8.0%       Southeast              0          0.0%
 7 PM - 12 AM              3             6.8%       West              8           9.1%       Southwest              1          1.1%
12 AM - 6 AM               1             2.3%                                                Unspecified            0          0.0%
                                                      Total           88
Unspecified                0             0.0%
     Total                 44
                                                    ACCIDENT TYPE     # ACC          %       ACCIDENT TYPE          # ACC
WEATHER                    # ACC           %        Rear End          17         38.6%       Pedestrian             0          0.0%
Clear                      28           63.6%       Overtake          2           4.5%       Bicycle                0          0.0%
Cloudy                     12           27.3%       Right Angle       9          20.5%       Parked Vehicle         0          0.0%
Rain                       3             6.8%       Left Turn         15         34.1%       Backing                0          0.0%
Snow                       0             0.0%       Right Turn        0           0.0%       Run Off The Road       0          0.0%
Sleet/Hail/Freezing Rain   1             2.3%       Fixed Object      1           2.3%       Animal                 0          0.0%
Fog/Smog/Smoke             0             0.0%       Head On           0           0.0%       Other                  0          0.0%
Unspecified                0             0.0%       Sideswipe         0           0.0%       Unspecified            0          0.0%

     Total                 44                                                 Total                 44

SURFACE                         # ACC          %                       ACCIDENT SEVERITY            # ACC              %
Dry                             31          70.5%                      Fatal                        0                0.0%
Wet                             9           20.5%                      Injury                       13              29.5%
Mud/Slush                       0            0.0%                      Property Damage              28              63.6%
Snow/Ice                        2            4.5%                      Non-Reportable               3                6.8%
Unspecified                     2            4.5%                             Total                 44
          Total                 44

TIME OF YEAR                    # ACC          %                       TYPE OF VEHICLE              # ACC              %
Winter (Dec-Feb)                17          38.6%                      Passenger Cars               87              98.9%
Spring (Mar-May)                10          22.7%                      Commercial Vehicles          1                1.1%
Summer (Jun-Aug)                10          22.7%                             Total                 88
Fall    (Sep-Nov)               7           15.9%
          Total                 44

DAY OF WEEK                     # ACC          %                       LIGHT CONDITION              # ACC              %
Sunday                          6           13.6%                      Daylight                     35              79.5%
Monday                          4            9.1%                      Dawn/Dusk                    1                2.3%
Tuesday                         4            9.1%                      Night                        8               18.2%
Wednesday                       12          27.3%                      Unspecified                  0                0.0%
Thursday                        5           11.4%                              Total                44
Friday                          9           20.5%
Saturday                        4            9.1%
      Total                     44

SUMMARY OF ACCIDENT SEVERITY BY YEAR:
                                                              2006   2007     2008
Fatal Accidents                                                 0      0        0
Injury Accidents                                                8      3        2
Property Damage Accidents                                       8      9       11
Non-Reportable Accidents                                        2      0        1
Total Accidents                                                18     12       14

                                                                                                                      HSA Software 3.0
                                                                                                                                                        Page 1
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                      Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/19442                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                   Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                    CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                            West of East Washington (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                   Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
EB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76                Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25       30       35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999      Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/6/11         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   01:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   02:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   03:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   04:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   05:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   06:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   07:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   08:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   09:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   10:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   11:00         3        1       5       45      105       50      12       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      221       31-40       155
  12 PM          4        0       8       40      128       43       6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      229       29-38       171
   13:00         8        1       5       45      109       63       8       1       1       0       0       0       0       0      241       31-40       172
   14:00        10        3      13       64      110       58      11       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      269       26-35       174
   15:00        26        6      13       65      142       45      12       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      310       26-35       207
   16:00        15        2       9       87      145       73       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      336       26-35       232
   17:00         9        0       9       58      193       82       8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      359       31-40       275
   18:00        12        1       9       65      128       69      12       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      296       30-39       197
   19:00         9        2       6       37      140       45       8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      247       31-40       185
   20:00         2        0       7       36       78       29       4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      156       26-35       114
   21:00         0        0       2       20       44       20       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       91       26-35        64
   22:00         0        0       1       11       36       16       5       1       0       0       0       1       0       0       71       30-39        52
   23:00         0        0       0        6       24       18       6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       54       31-40        42
    Total       98       16      87      579     1382      611     102       3       1       0       0       1       0       0     2880
 Percent     3.4%     0.6%    3.0%    20.1%    48.0%    21.2%    3.5%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      11:00    11:00   11:00    11:00    11:00    11:00   11:00                                                             11:00
     Vol.        3        1       5       45      105       50      12                                                               221
PM Peak      15:00    15:00   14:00    16:00    17:00    17:00   15:00   13:00   13:00                   22:00                     17:00
     Vol.       26        6      13       87      193       82      12       1       1                       1                       359
                                                                                                                                                        Page 2
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                      Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/19442                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                   Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                    CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                            West of East Washington (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                   Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
EB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76                Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25       30       35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999      Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/7/11         1        1       1        5       15        8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       31       29-38        23
   01:00         0        0       0        0        3        3       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        7       32-41         7
   02:00         0        0       0        1        3        3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        7       29-38         7
   03:00         0        0       0        1        2        1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        4       27-36         4
   04:00         0        0       2        1        4        5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       12       30-39         9
   05:00         0        0       3        2       10        8       6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       29       29-38        18
   06:00         3        0       1        9       40       22       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       76       31-40        62
   07:00         6        1       3       32       99       33       4       3       0       0       0       0       0       0      181       29-38       134
   08:00         7        2       7       51       87       36       9       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      200       26-35       138
   09:00         8        1       8       63      113       50       4       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      248       26-35       176
   10:00        10        1      10       49      111       47      10       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      238       27-36       161
   11:00         9        0       7       69      124       46       9       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      264       26-35       193
  12 PM          3        0       6       53      115       60       9       2       0       0       0       0       0       0      248       31-40       175
   13:00        11        1       7       62      102       38       8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      229       26-35       164
   14:00         9        4      15       65      137       59       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      292       26-35       202
   15:00        14        1      10       72      161       58       7       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      324       26-35       233
   16:00         7        0       9       62      157       68       9       2       0       0       0       0       0       0      314       29-38       225
   17:00         8        2       7       51      165       90      12       2       0       0       0       0       0       0      337       31-40       255
   18:00        11        0       4       34      125       99      15       1       1       0       0       0       0       0      290       31-40       224
   19:00         6        2       5       50      102       64      10       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      240       31-40       166
   20:00         5        1       2       34       81       45       8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      176       31-40       126
   21:00         3        0       2       28       65       20       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      119       26-35        93
   22:00         1        0       1        9       23       14       2       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       51       30-39        37
   23:00         1        0       0        8       23        6       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       40       27-36        32
    Total      123       17     110      811     1867      883     130      15       1       0       0       0       0       0     3957
 Percent     3.1%     0.4%    2.8%    20.5%    47.2%    22.3%    3.3%    0.4%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      10:00    08:00   10:00    11:00    11:00    09:00   10:00   07:00                                                     11:00
     Vol.       10        2      10       69      124       50      10       3                                                       264
PM Peak      15:00    14:00   14:00    15:00    17:00    18:00   18:00   12:00   18:00                                             17:00
     Vol.       14        4      15       72      165       99      15       2       1                                               337
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 3
                                                                                SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                               88 Broadway                                                                      Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/19442                                                    Taunton, MA 02780                                                                   Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                               CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                                       West of East Washington (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                              Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
EB
  Start          1       16           21         26          31        36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76                Pace    Number
 Time           15       20           25         30          35        40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999      Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/8/11         0        0            1          6           6         8       1       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       23       29-38        15
   01:00         0        0            0          2           9         2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       13       28-37        13
   02:00         0        0            0          0           2         1       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        4       31-40         3
   03:00         0        0            0          3           4         1       1       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       10       25-34         7
   04:00         0        1            0          0           3         2       0       0       1       0       0       0       0       0        7       28-37         5
   05:00         1        0            0          2          24         4       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       33       29-38        29
   06:00         5        1            2         13          42        17       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       82       28-37        59
   07:00         9        0            5         48          77        30       4       0       1       0       0       0       0       0      174       26-35       125
   08:00        10        3            3         46          95        52       3       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      213       30-39       147
   09:00         6        1           15         42          84        52       7       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      207       31-40       136
   10:00         7        0            2         51         106        61      12       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      240       31-40       167
   11:00         8        4           11         64         108        50       7       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      252       26-35       172
  12 PM          9        4           12         37         114        40       8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      224       29-38       154
   13:00         9        3            5         37          86        35       2       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      178       26-35       123
   14:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   15:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   16:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   17:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   18:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   19:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   20:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   21:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   22:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
   23:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    Total       64       17           56        351         760       355      50       5       2       0       0       0       0       0     1660
 Percent     3.9%     1.0%         3.4%      21.1%       45.8%     21.4%    3.0%    0.3%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      08:00    11:00       09:00       11:00       11:00     10:00   10:00   00:00   04:00                                             11:00
     Vol.       10        4           15         64         108        61      12       1       1                                               252
PM Peak      12:00    12:00       12:00       12:00       12:00     12:00   12:00   13:00                                                     12:00
     Vol.        9        4           12         37         114        40       8       1                                                       224
    Total      285       50         253        1741        4009      1849     282      23      4       0       0       1       0       0       8497
 Percent     3.4%     0.6%         3.0%      20.5%       47.2%     21.8%    3.3%    0.3%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
                              15th Percentile :          27 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          33 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          38 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          40 MPH

     Stats             10 MPH Pace Speed :            31-40 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                5858
                            Percent in Pace :              68.9%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                    1
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                0.0%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :              32 MPH
                                                                                                                                                        Page 4
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                      Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/19442                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                   Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                    CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                            West of East Washington (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                   Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
WB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76                Pace    Number
  Time          15       20      25       30       35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999      Total     Speed    in Pace
   6/6/11        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    01:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    02:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    03:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    04:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    05:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    06:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    07:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    08:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    09:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    10:00        *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    11:00        4        1      12       80       89       21       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      212       26-35       169
   12 PM         1        2      15       95      114       18       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      245       26-35       209
    13:00        8        1       8       85       99       27       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      231       26-35       184
    14:00        7        1      18      108      112       28       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      276       26-35       220
    15:00        9        2      17       96      112       34       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      272       26-35       208
    16:00        9        0      13       91      150       32       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      296       26-35       241
    17:00        9        0       8      102      136       38       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      295       26-35       238
    18:00        4        0      11       82      103       33       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      236       26-35       185
    19:00        6        1      11       73       73       26       4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      194       26-35       146
    20:00        2        0       5       44       61       16       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      131       26-35       105
    21:00        0        0       6       43       47       14       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      112       26-35        90
    22:00        0        0       0       21       24        8       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       56       26-35        45
    23:00        0        0       5       13       24        8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       50       26-35        37
    Total       59        8     129      933     1144      303      30       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     2606
 Percent     2.3%     0.3%    5.0%    35.8%    43.9%    11.6%    1.2%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      11:00    11:00   11:00    11:00    11:00    11:00   11:00                                                             11:00
     Vol.        4        1      12       80       89       21       5                                                               212
PM Peak      15:00    12:00   14:00    14:00    16:00    17:00   19:00                                                             16:00
     Vol.        9        2      18      108      150       38       4                                                               296
                                                                                                                                                        Page 5
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                      Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/19442                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                   Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                    CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                            West of East Washington (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                   Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
WB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76                Pace    Number
  Time          15       20      25       30       35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999      Total     Speed    in Pace
   6/7/11        0        0       0        4       10        5       0       0       0       1       0       0       0       0       20       27-36        15
    01:00        0        0       0        4        8        1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       13       27-36        13
    02:00        0        0       0        1        3        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        4       24-33         4
    03:00        0        0       0        0        2        2       0       0       1       0       0       0       0       0        5       28-37         4
    04:00        0        0       1        5        3        5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       14       25-34         8
    05:00        0        0       2       19       30       20       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       74       27-36        50
    06:00        1        0       3       35       77       32       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      151       26-35       112
    07:00        3        0      12       83      147       27       5       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      278       26-35       230
    08:00        8        3      26       91      132       36       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      297       26-35       223
    09:00        4        2       3       72      101       23       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      205       26-35       173
    10:00        5        0      15       75       88       23       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      206       26-35       163
    11:00        5        0      12       74      101       21       2       0       0       1       0       0       0       0      216       26-35       175
   12 PM         8        1       9       77      123       22       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      242       26-35       200
    13:00        6        1      10       89       93       22       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      221       26-35       182
    14:00        9        2      20       89      118       21       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      259       26-35       207
    15:00        9        0      12       80      151       34       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      287       26-35       231
    16:00        7        0      12       96      143       43       6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      307       26-35       239
    17:00       11        2       8      104      157       39       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      323       26-35       261
    18:00       10        0       6       74      110       44       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      247       26-35       184
    19:00        7        0       5       70       86       24       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      197       26-35       156
    20:00        7        0       5       54       73       20       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      160       26-35       127
    21:00        2        1       6       43       58       11       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      122       26-35       101
    22:00        0        0       2       27       39        7       1       0       1       0       0       0       0       0       77       26-35        66
    23:00        2        0       0       15       26        5       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       49       26-35        41
    Total      104       12     169     1281     1879      487      37       1       2       2       0       0       0       0     3974
 Percent     2.6%     0.3%    4.3%    32.2%    47.3%    12.3%    0.9%    0.0%    0.1%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      08:00    08:00   08:00    08:00    07:00    08:00   07:00   07:00   03:00   00:00                                     08:00
     Vol.        8        3      26       91      147       36       5       1       1       1                                       297
PM Peak      17:00    14:00   14:00    17:00    17:00    18:00   16:00           22:00                                             17:00
     Vol.       11        2      20      104      157       44       6               1                                               323
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 6
                                                                                SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                               88 Broadway                                                                      Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/19442                                                    Taunton, MA 02780                                                                   Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                               CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                                       West of East Washington (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                              Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
WB
  Start          1       16           21         26          31        36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76                Pace    Number
  Time          15       20           25         30          35        40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999      Total     Speed    in Pace
   6/8/11        0        1            0          4          15         5       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       26       27-36        20
    01:00        0        0            2          2           2         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        6       23-32         6
    02:00        0        0            0          2           2         0       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        5       23-32         4
    03:00        0        0            0          1           1         1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        3       27-36         3
    04:00        0        0            0          2           8         2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       12       28-37        12
    05:00        1        0            1         19          29        21       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       71       27-36        50
    06:00        3        0            5         39          79        38       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      166       27-36       119
    07:00        6        0            6         66         145        41       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      266       26-35       211
    08:00        9        0           14        117         149        30       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      322       26-35       266
    09:00        3        1           11         64         106        18       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      206       26-35       170
    10:00        4        1            6         73          97        27       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      210       26-35       170
    11:00        7        0            6         71         109        31       4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      228       26-35       180
   12 PM         8        0           18         78          91        30       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      227       26-35       169
    13:00        7        2           11         65          74        14       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      173       26-35       139
    14:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    15:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    16:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    17:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    18:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    19:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    20:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    21:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    22:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    23:00        *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *         *
    Total       48        5           80        603         907       258      20       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     1921
 Percent     2.5%     0.3%         4.2%      31.4%       47.2%     13.4%    1.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      08:00    00:00       08:00       08:00       08:00     07:00   11:00                                                             08:00
     Vol.        9        1           14        117         149        41       4                                                               322
PM Peak      12:00    13:00       12:00       12:00       12:00     12:00   12:00                                                             12:00
     Vol.        8        2           18         78          91        30       2                                                               227
    Total      211       25         378        2817        3930      1048      87      1       2       2       0       0       0       0       8501
 Percent     2.5%     0.3%         4.4%      33.1%       46.2%     12.3%    1.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
                              15th Percentile :          27 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          32 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          35 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          39 MPH

    Stats              10 MPH Pace Speed :            26-35 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                6747
                            Percent in Pace :              79.4%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                    2
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                0.0%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :              31 MPH
                                                                                                                                                           Page 1
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                         Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/23350                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                      Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                       CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                         East of East Washington Street (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                      Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
EB
  Start          1       16       21       26       31      36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71        76                 Pace    Number
 Time           15       20       25       30       35      40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75      999       Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/6/11         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   01:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   02:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   03:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   04:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   05:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   06:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   07:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   08:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   09:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   10:00         *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   11:00         5       10       41       81       31       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       170       21-30       122
  12 PM          6       10       44       54       23       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       139       21-30        98
   13:00         7        4       23       73       28       2       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       138       24-33       101
   14:00         7        8       48       73       33       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       172       21-30       121
   15:00         5        2       26       69       39       6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       147       26-35       108
   16:00         6        2       29       89       47       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       174       26-35       136
   17:00         5        4       35       95       62       4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       205       26-35       157
   18:00         9        2       22       76       53       6       2       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       170       26-35       129
   19:00         2        4       27       52       16       4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       105       21-30        79
   20:00         0        2       15       35       16       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        68       22-31        51
   21:00         1        1        9       29       13       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        54       24-33        42
   22:00         0        1       11       19       12       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        44       23-32        32
   23:00         0        0        6       11        9       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        29       25-34        21
    Total       53       50      336      756     382       35       3       0       0       0       0       0       0         0      1615
 Percent     3.3%     3.1%    20.8%    46.8%    23.7%    2.2%    0.2%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
AM Peak      11:00    11:00    11:00    11:00    11:00   11:00                                                                        11:00
     Vol.        5       10       41       81       31       2                                                                          170
PM Peak      18:00    12:00    14:00    17:00    17:00   15:00   18:00                                                                17:00
     Vol.        9       10       48       95       62       6       2                                                                  205
                                                                                                                                                           Page 2
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                         Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/23350                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                      Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                       CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                         East of East Washington Street (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                      Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
EB
  Start          1       16       21       26       31      36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71        76                 Pace    Number
 Time           15       20       25       30       35      40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75      999       Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/7/11         0        1        0       10        4       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        16       25-34        14
   01:00         0        0        0        1        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         1       17-26         1
   02:00         0        0        0        1        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         1       17-26         1
   03:00         2        0        0        0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         2           *         2
   04:00         5        1        0        1        1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         8           *         5
   05:00         5        2        1        6        0       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        16       21-30         7
   06:00         0        2        6       29       15       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        52       26-35        44
   07:00         4        4       40       63       23       4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       138       21-30       103
   08:00         2        6       33       65       27       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       135       21-30        98
   09:00         2        3       41       49       28       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       126       21-30        90
   10:00         7        1       30       61       32       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       136       23-32        93
   11:00         4        6       20       61       27       4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       122       26-35        88
  12 PM         10        6       22       66       45       6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       155       26-35       111
   13:00         4        3       23       42       40       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       117       26-35        82
   14:00         8        3       39       84       43       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       182       24-33       127
   15:00         8        1       26       73       45       7       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       161       26-35       118
   16:00        15        6       20       94       40       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       180       26-35       134
   17:00        13        2       17       85       50      10       2       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       179       26-35       135
   18:00         4        1       12       64       62       6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       149       26-35       126
   19:00         1        1       17       65       37       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       122       26-35       102
   20:00         2        0       22       51       21       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        99       22-31        74
   21:00         0        2        8       39       18       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        69       26-35        57
   22:00         0        0        4       16        7       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        27       23-32        23
   23:00         0        1        8       10        5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        24       21-30        18
    Total       96       52      389     1036     570       71       3       0       0       0       0       0       0         0      2217
 Percent     4.3%     2.3%    17.5%    46.7%    25.7%    3.2%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
AM Peak      10:00    08:00    09:00    08:00    10:00   10:00                                                                        07:00
     Vol.        7        6       41       65       32       5                                                                          138
PM Peak      16:00    12:00    14:00    16:00    18:00   17:00   17:00                                                                14:00
     Vol.       15        6       39       94       62      10       2                                                                  182
                                                                                                                                                                     Page 3
                                                                               SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                              88 Broadway                                                                         Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/23350                                                   Taunton, MA 02780                                                                      Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                                 CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                                   East of East Washington Street (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                                Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
EB
  Start          1       16          21          26          31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71        76                 Pace    Number
 Time           15       20          25          30          35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75      999       Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/8/11         0        1           4           3           5        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        13       26-35         8
   01:00         0        0           0           4           3        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         7       24-33         7
   02:00         0        0           0           0           0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         0           *         *
   03:00         0        0           1           1           1        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         3       22-31         3
   04:00         5        0           1           1           1        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         8           *         5
   05:00         7        0           2           6           5        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        20       24-33        11
   06:00         0        3          11          26          13        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        53       24-33        40
   07:00         9        7          37          57          16        1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       127       21-30        94
   08:00        11        4          41          67          33        3       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       160       21-30       108
   09:00         4        2          35          49          24        3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       117       21-30        84
   10:00         7        4          28          65          30        3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       137       23-32        95
   11:00         4        6          33          64          22        5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       134       21-30        97
  12 PM         11        7          21          68          28        6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       141       25-34        96
   13:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   14:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   15:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   16:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   17:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   18:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   19:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   20:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   21:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   22:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
   23:00         *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    Total       58       34         214         411         181       21       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       920
 Percent     6.3%     3.7%       23.3%       44.7%       19.7%     2.3%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
AM Peak      08:00    07:00       08:00       08:00       08:00    11:00   08:00                                                                08:00
     Vol.       11        7          41          67          33        5       1                                                                  160
PM Peak      12:00    12:00       12:00       12:00       12:00    12:00                                                                        12:00
     Vol.       11        7          21          68          28        6                                                                          141
    Total      207      136         939        2203        1133      127      7       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        4752
 Percent     4.4%     2.9%       19.8%       46.4%       23.8%     2.7%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
                              15th Percentile :          22 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          28 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          33 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          35 MPH

     Stats             10 MPH Pace Speed :            26-35 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                3336
                            Percent in Pace :              70.2%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                    0
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                0.0%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :              27 MPH
                                                                                                                                                           Page 4
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                         Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/23350                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                      Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                       CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                         East of East Washington Street (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                      Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
WB
  Start          1       16       21       26       31      36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71        76                 Pace    Number
  Time          15       20       25       30       35      40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75      999       Total     Speed    in Pace
   6/6/11        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    01:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    02:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    03:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    04:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    05:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    06:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    07:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    08:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    09:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    10:00        *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    11:00        3        7       55       70       34       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       171       21-30       125
   12 PM         3       11       55       66       46       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       186       21-30       121
    13:00       11        6       41       65       30       4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       157       21-30       106
    14:00        6       13       45       81       29       5       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       180       21-30       126
    15:00        8       19       41      103       29      10       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       210       21-30       144
    16:00        6        7       36      112       47      13       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       222       26-35       159
    17:00       11        5       31       81       55       3       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       187       26-35       136
    18:00        5        3       23       66       49       9       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       156       26-35       115
    19:00        4        2       23       77       22       4       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       133       23-32       102
    20:00        1        3       25       34       14       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        78       21-30        59
    21:00        1        0       13       20       12       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        46       23-32        35
    22:00        0        0        5       11        3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        19       21-30        16
    23:00        0        1        7        6        7       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        22       21-30        13
    Total       59       77      400      792     377       57       5       0       0       0       0       0       0         0      1767
 Percent     3.3%     4.4%    22.6%    44.8%    21.3%    3.2%    0.3%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
AM Peak      11:00    11:00    11:00    11:00    11:00   11:00                                                                        11:00
     Vol.        3        7       55       70       34       2                                                                          171
PM Peak      13:00    15:00    12:00    16:00    17:00   16:00   14:00                                                                16:00
     Vol.       11       19       55      112       55      13       1                                                                  222
                                                                                                                                                           Page 5
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                         Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/23350                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                      Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                       CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                         East of East Washington Street (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                      Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
WB
  Start          1       16       21       26       31      36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71        76                 Pace    Number
  Time          15       20       25       30       35      40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75      999       Total     Speed    in Pace
   6/7/11        0        0        2        5        2       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        10       23-32         9
    01:00        0        0        1        0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         1       12-21         1
    02:00        0        0        0        0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         0           *         *
    03:00        0        0        0        0        2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         2       23-32         2
    04:00        2        0        2        4        2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        10       23-32         8
    05:00        6        2        3       18       12       4       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        46       26-35        30
    06:00        2        2       21       37       26       8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        96       25-34        63
    07:00        1        6       15       53       51      14       3       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       143       26-35       104
    08:00        6        3       21       98       57      16       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       201       26-35       155
    09:00        6        5       35       77       33       7       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       163       21-30       112
    10:00        4        3       32       59       29       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       128       21-30        91
    11:00        5        7       37       79       37       3       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       168       23-32       118
   12 PM         9        7       34       81       51       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       187       26-35       132
    13:00        5        3       24       67       38       9       2       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       148       26-35       105
    14:00        8        5       34       94       47       8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       196       26-35       141
    15:00        4        1       40       90       71      10       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       216       26-35       161
    16:00       11        3       59      102       59       7       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       241       22-31       162
    17:00       12        2       30       97       50       9       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       201       26-35       147
    18:00        4        2       24       73       47      13       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       163       26-35       120
    19:00        3        5       24       55       27       4       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       119       23-32        82
    20:00        2        4       32       50       16       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       109       21-30        82
    21:00        2        3       12       25       10       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        54       21-30        37
    22:00        0        0        6       13        5       2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        26       21-30        19
    23:00        0        0        4        4        3       0       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        12       22-31         9
    Total       92       63      492     1181     675      128       9       0       0       0       0       0       0         0      2640
 Percent     3.5%     2.4%    18.6%    44.7%    25.6%    4.8%    0.3%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
AM Peak      05:00    11:00    11:00    08:00    08:00   08:00   07:00                                                                08:00
     Vol.        6        7       37       98       57      16       3                                                                  201
PM Peak      17:00    12:00    16:00    16:00    15:00   18:00   13:00                                                                16:00
     Vol.       12        7       59      102       71      13       2                                                                  241
                                                                                                                                                                     Page 6
                                                                               SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                              88 Broadway                                                                         Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-6/23350                                                   Taunton, MA 02780                                                                      Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                                 CHESTNUT STREET
                                                                                                                                   East of East Washington Street (Route 1)
                                                                                                                                                Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
WB
  Start          1       16          21          26          31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71        76                 Pace    Number
  Time          15       20          25          30          35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75      999       Total     Speed    in Pace
   6/8/11        0        1           2           6           1        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        10       22-31         9
    01:00        0        0           0           0           0        1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         1       27-36         1
    02:00        0        0           0           0           0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         0           *         *
    03:00        0        0           0           1           1        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0         2       22-31         2
    04:00        0        0           1           4           5        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        10       25-34         9
    05:00        5        2           7          18           8        2       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0        42       24-33        28
    06:00        6        3          15          45          37        5       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       112       26-35        82
    07:00        4       10          29          53          32        6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       134       23-32        85
    08:00        3        4          40          92          52       16       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       207       26-35       144
    09:00        3        5          37          69          34        4       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       152       21-30       106
    10:00        8        5          32          61          42        6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       154       26-35       103
    11:00        3        8          33          85          37        6       1       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       173       23-32       122
   12 PM         4        7          36          70          46        8       0       0       0       0       0       0       0         0       171       26-35       116
    13:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    14:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    15:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    16:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    17:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    18:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    19:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    20:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    21:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    22:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    23:00        *        *            *          *           *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *         *          *          *         *
    Total       36       45         232         504         295       54       2       0       0       0       0       0       0         0      1168
 Percent     3.1%     3.9%       19.9%       43.2%       25.3%     4.6%    0.2%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
AM Peak      10:00    07:00       08:00       08:00       08:00    08:00   06:00                                                                08:00
     Vol.        8       10          40          92          52       16       1                                                                  207
PM Peak      12:00    12:00       12:00       12:00       12:00    12:00                                                                        12:00
     Vol.        4        7          36          70          46        8                                                                          171
    Total      187      185        1124        2477        1347      239      16      0       0       0       0       0       0         0        5575
 Percent     3.4%     3.3%       20.2%       44.4%       24.2%     4.3%    0.3%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
                              15th Percentile :          23 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          28 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          33 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          35 MPH

    Stats              10 MPH Pace Speed :            26-35 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                3824
                            Percent in Pace :              68.6%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                    0
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                0.0%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :              28 MPH
                                                                                                   SRPEDD
                                                                                                    88 BROADWAY
NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                   TAUNTON, MA 02780                             File Name           : NAEWashington@ChestnutMIDDAY
East Washington (1) @ Chestnut                                                                                                                  Site Code           : 00012345
AGro/MG                                                                                                                                         Start Date          : 8/3/2011
CLEAR                                                                                                                                           Page No             :1


                                                                                                   Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                East Washington (1)                                Chestnut Street                             East Washington (1)                              Chestnut Street
                                     Southbound                                      Westbound                                      Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time          Right      Thru     Left   Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru     Left    Peds    App. Total  Right     Thru     Left   Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru     Left    Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
       12:30 PM         13       142        3       0           158         2     19      46         0          67      29      161       9        0        199        22      19        3        0           44          468
       12:45 PM          4       163        7       0           174        11     15      46         0          72      47      134      11        0        192        21      13        5        0           39          477
            Total       17       305      10        0           332        13     34      92         0         139      76      295      20        0        391        43      32        8        0           83          945

       01:00 PM          8       151        11         0        170        6      19      36         0         61       45      152      12        0        209        22      19        2        0          43          483
       01:15 PM          8       168         5         0        181        1      11      34         0         46       23      166      10        0        199        22      16        6        0          44          470
       01:30 PM          6       147         7         0        160        5       7      40         0         52       32      146      11        0        189        21      18        4        0          43          444
       01:45 PM          5       183         5         0        193        6      25      35         0         66       29      133      10        0        172        12      11        2        0          25          456
            Total       27       649        28         0        704       18      62     145         0        225      129      597      43        0        769        77      64       14        0         155         1853

       02:00 PM          2       151         5        0         158        6      13      27         0         46       37      188      10        0        235        29      19        9        0          57          496
       02:15 PM          2       168         5        1         176        8      11      36         0         55       44      143       5        0        192        17      15        6        0          38          461
       02:30 PM          3       156         9        4         172        6      22      34         0         62       45      132      18        0        195        20       9       10        0          39          468
       02:45 PM          7       156         8        0         171       11      21      46         0         78       37      185       7        0        229        14      13        6        0          33          511
            Total       14       631        27        5         677       31      67     143         0        241      163      648      40        0        851        80      56       31        0         167         1936

       03:00 PM          7       167         5         1        180        7      14      43         0         64       38      165      11        0        214        27      21        3        1          52          510
       03:15 PM         11       194         5         0        210        3      26      35         0         64       43      173       8        0        224        19      22        8        0          49          547
       03:30 PM          4       197         4         0        205        7      18      45         0         70       52      159      14        0        225        20      34        7        0          61          561
       03:45 PM          6       185         6         0        197        3      21      47         0         71       36      158      10        0        204        21      14        4        0          39          511
            Total       28       743        20         1        792       20      79     170         0        269      169      655      43        0        867        87      91       22        1         201         2129

    Grand Total          86    2328         85        6        2505        82    242      550        0        874      537     2195     146        0       2878       287     243       75        1         606         6863
      Apprch %          3.4     92.9       3.4      0.2                   9.4   27.7     62.9        0                18.7      76.3     5.1       0                 47.4    40.1     12.4      0.2
        Total %         1.3     33.9       1.2      0.1         36.5      1.2     3.5       8        0        12.7      7.8       32     2.1       0        41.9       4.2     3.5     1.1        0          8.8




                                 East Washington (1)                               Chestnut Street                              East Washington (1)                             Chestnut Street
                                      Southbound                                     Westbound                                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
      Start Time      Right     Thru       Left    Peds   App. Total    Right   Thru     Left     Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru      Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left     Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:30 PM to 03:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:45 PM
       02:45 PM            7     156          8         0       171       11      21       46        0          78      37      185       7        0         229       14      13        6        0           33          511
       03:00 PM            7     167          5         1       180        7      14       43        0         64       38      165      11        0        214        27      21        3        1           52          510
       03:15 PM           11     194          5         0       210        3      26       35        0         64       43      173       8        0        224        19      22        8         0          49          547
       03:30 PM            4     197          4         0       205        7      18       45        0         70       52      159      14        0        225        20      34        7         0          61          561
   Total Volume           29     714         22         1       766       28      79      169        0        276      170      682       40       0        892        80      90       24         1        195         2129
   % App. Total          3.8    93.2        2.9       0.1               10.1    28.6     61.2        0                19.1     76.5      4.5       0                   41    46.2     12.3       0.5
             PHF       .659     .906      .688      .250       .912     .636    .760     .918     .000        .885    .817     .922    .714     .000        .974     .741    .662     .750     .250         .799         .949
                                                                             SRPEDD
                                                                               88 BROADWAY
NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                              TAUNTON, MA 02780              File Name                    : NAEWashington@ChestnutMIDDAY
East Washington (1) @ Chestnut                                                                              Site Code                    : 00012345
AGro/MG                                                                                                     Start Date                   : 8/3/2011
CLEAR                                                                                                       Page No                      :2

                                                                                 East Washington (1)
                                                                               Out      In       Total
                                                                                734      766      1500


                                                                                 29  714       22    1
                                                                              Right Thru     Left Peds




                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                                    343


                                                             24




                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                   Total




                                                           Left




                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                  28


                                                                                                                             282

                                                                                                                                Chestnut Street
                                   Chestnut Street




                                                                                         North
                                                                        90
                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                          195




                                                                                                                       79
                                          In




                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 02:45 PM




                                                                                                                                       276
                                                                   80




                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                169
                                                                             Unshifted
                                  148
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                              1




                                                                                                                                                558
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                              Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                40  682   170    0


                                                                                963      892      1855
                                                                               Out      In       Total
                                                                                 East Washington (1)
                                                                                                                                                      Page 1
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/12679                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                              E. WASHINGTON (1) SB
                                                                                                                                    South of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                 Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
SB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25       30       35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/6/11         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   01:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   02:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   03:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   04:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   05:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   06:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   07:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   08:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   09:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   10:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   11:00        19        4      32      127      197      130      39       1       0       0       0       0       0       0    549       29-38       327
  12 PM         10        1      19       97      234      166      28       9       0       0       0       0       0       0    564       31-40       400
   13:00        18        7      14      115      276      154      50       6       0       0       0       0       0       0    640       31-40       430
   14:00        24        0      20      112      287      153      39       4       1       0       0       0       0       0    640       31-40       440
   15:00        18        3      17       86      248      182      55       7       3       0       0       0       0       0    619       31-40       430
   16:00        28        1      15      101      301      166      62       9       2       0       0       0       0       0    685       31-40       467
   17:00        26        1      16       84      307      197      58       7       1       0       0       0       0       0    697       31-40       504
   18:00        10        1       5       51      234      218      70      17       5       1       0       0       0       0    612       31-40       452
   19:00        11        1       3       66      183      142      55      14       1       0       0       0       0       0    476       31-40       325
   20:00         4        2       7       40      140      117      62      10       1       0       0       0       0       0    383       31-40       257
   21:00         2        2       4       29       82       81      35       9       1       0       0       0       0       0    245       31-40       163
   22:00         1        1       2       21       35       56      27       6       1       0       0       0       0       0    150       31-40        91
   23:00         1        0       2        5       15       24      21      11       1       1       0       0       0       0     81       36-45        45
    Total      172       24     156      934     2539     1786     601     110      17       2       0       0       0       0   6341
 Percent     2.7%     0.4%    2.5%    14.7%    40.0%    28.2%    9.5%    1.7%    0.3%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      11:00    11:00   11:00    11:00    11:00    11:00   11:00   11:00                                                   11:00
     Vol.       19        4      32      127      197      130      39       1                                                     549
PM Peak      16:00    13:00   14:00    13:00    17:00    18:00   18:00   18:00   18:00   18:00                                   17:00
     Vol.       28        7      20      115      307      218      70      17       5       1                                     697
                                                                                                                                                       Page 2
                                                                      SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                     88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/12679                                          Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                               E. WASHINGTON (1) SB
                                                                                                                                     South of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                  Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
SB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36       41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25       30       35       40       45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999     Total    Speed    in Pace
  6/7/11         0        0       1        4       10       21       13       0       2       0       0       0       0       0      51      34-43        34
   01:00         0        1       0        1        8        8       10       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      29      33-42        18
   02:00         0        0       0        2        0       10        4       4       0       0       0       0       0       0      20      36-45        14
   03:00         1        0       0        3        3        6        8       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      22      34-43        14
   04:00         0        0       1        0        3       21        9       4       0       0       0       0       0       0      38      35-44        30
   05:00         3        1       2       16       35       44       57      14       0       0       0       0       0       0     172      36-45       101
   06:00        12        1       1       42      159      177      114      16       0       0       0       0       0       0     522      31-40       336
   07:00        24        0       7       62      285      233      118      25       4       0       0       0       0       0     758      31-40       518
   08:00        27        6       4       65      257      227       75      16       0       0       0       0       0       0     677      31-40       484
   09:00        14        3      16       89      200      144       56       9       1       0       0       0       0       0     532      31-40       344
   10:00        17        0      17       99      209      124       54       5       1       0       0       0       0       0     526      31-40       333
   11:00        18        2      17      117      246      137       44       5       2       0       0       0       0       0     588      31-40       383
  12 PM         18        2      25      141      246      139       44       8       0       1       0       0       0       0     624      26-35       387
   13:00        20        2      11       86      213      177       51      12       0       0       0       0       0       0     572      31-40       390
   14:00        16        4      29      117      268      158       41      11       0       0       0       0       0       0     644      31-40       426
   15:00        17        4       9       98      297      152       60       7       0       0       0       0       0       0     644      31-40       449
   16:00        21        3      13       70      281      186       70      17       4       1       0       0       0       0     666      31-40       467
   17:00        35        2       7       79      334      258       62      12       0       0       0       0       0       0     789      31-40       592
   18:00        13        2       7       50      234      199       81      10       1       0       0       0       0       0     597     31-40        433
   19:00        14        0      11       65      197      162       61      14       0       0       0       0       0       0     524     31-40        359
   20:00        12        3       8       40      143      117       63      14       0       0       0       0       0       0     400      31-40       260
   21:00        10        2      11       41      119      127       44       9       0       0       0       0       0       0     363      31-40       246
   22:00         4        2       3       13       64       62       40       7       1       0       0       0       0       0     196      31-40       126
   23:00         1        0       2        8       22       47       28       4       2       0       0       0       0       0     114      34-43        75
    Total      297       40     202     1308     3833     2936     1207     225      18       2       0       0       0       0   10068
 Percent     2.9%     0.4%    2.0%    13.0%    38.1%    29.2%    12.0%    2.2%    0.2%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      08:00    08:00   10:00    11:00    07:00    07:00    07:00   07:00   07:00                                           07:00
     Vol.       27        6      17      117      285      233      118      25       4                                             758
PM Peak      17:00    14:00   14:00    12:00    17:00    17:00    18:00   16:00   16:00   12:00                                   17:00
     Vol.       35        4      29      141      334      258       81      17       4       1                                     789
                                                                                                                                                                  Page 3
                                                                                 SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                                88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/12679                                                     Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                          E. WASHINGTON (1) SB
                                                                                                                                                South of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                             Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
SB
  Start          1       16           21         26          31        36       41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20           25         30          35        40       45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/8/11         0        1            1          7          19        23       15       4       0       0       0       0       0       0     70       31-40        42
   01:00         0        0            0          2           8         9        3       2       0       0       0       0       0       0     24       30-39        17
   02:00         1        0            0          1           3         6        1       3       0       0       0       0       0       0     15       30-39         9
   03:00         0        0            1          3           2         5       10       1       0       0       0       0       0       0     22       36-45        15
   04:00         2        0            1          2          10        17       15       4       0       0       0       0       0       0     51       36-45        32
   05:00         4        0            2          8          43        70       53      10       1       0       0       0       0       0    191       36-45       123
   06:00        15        1            6         36         154       187      101      20       3       0       0       0       0       0    523       31-40       341
   07:00        26        2            7         61         287       216      117      26       0       0       0       0       0       0    742       31-40       503
   08:00        22        5           18         58         285       215       74       9       3       0       0       0       0       0    689       31-40       500
   09:00        14        1           28         83         181       145       61      18       1       0       0       0       0       0    532       31-40       326
   10:00        16        3           13         87         188       140       63       8       1       0       0       0       0       0    519       31-40       328
   11:00        12        1           13         99         250       156       38       6       1       0       0       0       0       0    576       31-40       406
  12 PM         12        2           15        103         273       158       38       3       0       0       0       0       0       0    604       31-40       431
   13:00        20        3           16        101         160       104       38       3       1       0       0       0       0       0    446       30-39       265
   14:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   15:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   16:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   17:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   18:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   19:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   20:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   21:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   22:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   23:00         *        *            *          *           *         *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
    Total      144       19         121         651        1863      1451      627     117      11       0       0       0       0       0   5004
 Percent     2.9%     0.4%         2.4%      13.0%       37.2%     29.0%    12.5%    2.3%    0.2%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      07:00    08:00       09:00       11:00       07:00     07:00    07:00   07:00   06:00                                           07:00
     Vol.       26        5           28         99         287       216      117      26       3                                             742
PM Peak      13:00    13:00       13:00       12:00       12:00     12:00    12:00   12:00   13:00                                           12:00
     Vol.       20        3           16        103         273       158       38       3       1                                             604
    Total      613       83         479        2893        8235      6173     2435     452      46      4       0       0       0       0    21413
 Percent     2.9%     0.4%         2.2%      13.5%       38.5%     28.8%    11.4%    2.1%    0.2%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
                              15th Percentile :          29 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          35 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          40 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          44 MPH

     Stats             10 MPH Pace Speed :            31-40 MPH
                            Number in Pace :               14408
                            Percent in Pace :              67.3%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                    4
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                0.0%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :              34 MPH
                                                                                                                                                      Page 1
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/21898                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                              E. WASHINGTON (1) SB
                                                                                                                                     North of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                 Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
SB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25       30       35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/6/11         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   01:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   02:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   03:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   04:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   05:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   06:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   07:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   08:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   09:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   10:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   11:00         *        *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
  12 PM         23       28      50     136      261      186       45       3       0       0       0       0       0       0    732       31-40       447
   13:00        26       18      84     171      251      190       47       6       1       0       0       0       0       0    794       31-40       441
   14:00        49       21      77     168      281      178       44       5       0       0       0       0       0       0    823       31-40       459
   15:00        32       24      81     120      257      209       63       8       1       0       0       0       0       0    795       31-40       466
   16:00        25       22    101      163      282      201       61      11       1       0       0       0       0       0    867       31-40       483
   17:00        41       28      99     162      314      214       48       6       1       0       0       0       0       0    913       31-40       528
   18:00        24        9      41     103      270      244       82      12       0       0       0       0       0       0    785       31-40       514
   19:00         9        6      27       93     198      194       75      15       0       1       0       0       0       0    618       31-40       392
   20:00         6        3      11       79     161      153       52       7       1       0       0       0       0       0    473       31-40       314
   21:00         3        2      14       43     115      101       41       7       2       0       0       0       0       0    328       31-40       216
   22:00         1        1       4       20       69       67      32       4       0       0       0       0       0       0    198       31-40       136
   23:00         0        1       2        3       41       40      20       8       1       0       0       0       0       0    116       31-40        81
    Total     239      163     591     1261     2500     1977     610       92       8       1       0       0       0       0   7442
 Percent     3.2%     2.2%    7.9%    16.9%    33.6%    26.6%    8.2%    1.2%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak
     Vol.
PM Peak      14:00    12:00   16:00   13:00    17:00    18:00    18:00   19:00   21:00   19:00                                   17:00
     Vol.       49       28     101     171     314       244       82      15       2       1                                     913
                                                                                                                                                      Page 2
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/21898                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                              E. WASHINGTON (1) SB
                                                                                                                                     North of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                 Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
SB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25       30       35       40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999     Total    Speed    in Pace
  6/7/11         0        0       1        2       13       33      10       1       1       0       0       0       0       0      61      31-40        46
   01:00         0        1       2        1       13       12       7       1       0       0       0       0       0       0      37      31-40        25
   02:00         0        0       2        0        2       13       7       3       0       1       0       0       0       0      28      34-43        20
   03:00         0        0       1        2        4       12       6       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      25      32-41        18
   04:00         0        2       0        0        8       24       4       3       0       0       0       0       0       0      41      31-40        32
   05:00         2        2       7       17       52       91      46       6       0       1       0       0       0       0     224      31-40       143
   06:00        11        9      22       61      193      235      96       9       1       0       0       0       0       0     637      31-40       428
   07:00        25       18      78      166      364      255      74      10       4       0       0       0       0       0     994      31-40       619
   08:00        21        7      47      138      294      259      90      10       0       0       0       0       0       0     866      31-40       553
   09:00        13       12      41      101      225      209      53       6       1       0       0       0       0       0     661      31-40       434
   10:00        14       14      47      135      220      180      44       6       1       0       0       0       0       0     661      31-40       400
   11:00        12       18      55      134      279      175      41       5       0       0       0       0       0       0     719      31-40       454
  12 PM         21       22      62      159      275      180      47       7       0       0       0       0       0       0     773      31-40       455
   13:00        22       22      43      109      258      196      59       9       0       0       0       0       0       0     718      31-40       454
   14:00        33       21      77      149      265      191      47       6       0       0       0       0       0       0     789      31-40       456
   15:00        32       31      73      155      255      205      65       2       0       0       0       0       0       0     818      31-40       460
   16:00        18       44      75      166      265      199      69       6       1       0       0       0       0       0     843      31-40       464
   17:00        73       24      77      180      326      231      64       4       0       0       0       0       0       0     979      31-40       557
   18:00        19       18      36      105      272      238      71       8       2       0       0       0       0       0     769      31-40       510
   19:00         4        5      22       90      226      230      82      11       0       0       0       0       0       0     670      31-40       456
   20:00        10        7      10       64      180      170      52       9       0       0       0       0       0       0     502      31-40       350
   21:00         5        2       9       48      176      147      30       4       0       0       0       0       0       0     421      31-40       323
   22:00         4        2       0       13       88       87      34       6       0       0       0       0       0       0     234      31-40       175
   23:00         0        0       3        8       49       79      17       2       0       0       0       0       0       0     158      31-40       128
    Total      339      281     790     2003     4302     3651    1115     134      11       2       0       0       0       0   12628
 Percent     2.7%     2.2%    6.3%    15.9%    34.1%    28.9%    8.8%    1.1%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      07:00    07:00   07:00    07:00    07:00    08:00   06:00   07:00   07:00   02:00                                   07:00
     Vol.       25       18      78      166      364      259      96      10       4       1                                     994
PM Peak      17:00    16:00   14:00    17:00    17:00    18:00   19:00   19:00   18:00                                           17:00
     Vol.       73       44      77      180      326      238      82      11       2                                             979
                                                                                                                                                                 Page 3
                                                                                SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                               88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/21898                                                    Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                         E. WASHINGTON (1) SB
                                                                                                                                                North of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                            Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
SB
  Start          1       16           21         26          31        36      41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20           25         30          35        40      45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/8/11         0        0            1          3          22        44      11       4       0       0       0       0       0       0     85       31-40        66
   01:00         0        0            1          2          11        13       5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     32       31-40        24
   02:00         0        0            0          0           8         3       2       2       0       0       0       0       0       0     15       29-38        11
   03:00         0        0            0          4           3        10       5       1       0       0       0       0       0       0     23       33-42        15
   04:00         0        0            0          2          15        22      11       4       0       0       0       0       0       0     54       31-40        37
   05:00         3        3            9         13          61       118      38       3       1       0       0       0       0       0    249       31-40       179
   06:00        10        7           23         62         176       256     100      12       1       0       0       0       0       0    647       31-40       432
   07:00        33       34           67        145         307       260      89      10       0       0       0       0       0       0    945       31-40       567
   08:00        35       29           67        171         270       210      68       6       1       0       0       0       0       0    857       31-40       480
   09:00        12       11           28        119         208       199      61       7       1       0       0       0       0       0    646       31-40       407
   10:00        11       12           35         82         276       187      42       3       0       0       0       0       0       0    648       31-40       463
   11:00        27       22           48        128         255       183      48       7       1       0       0       0       0       0    719       31-40       438
  12 PM         29       18           51        150         261       170      52       7       1       0       0       0       0       0    739       31-40       431
   13:00        21       18           54         96         208       126      38       3       0       0       0       0       0       0    564       31-40       334
   14:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   15:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   16:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   17:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   18:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   19:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   20:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   21:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   22:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   23:00         *        *            *          *           *         *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
    Total      181      154         384         977        2081      1801     570      69       6       0       0       0       0       0   6223
 Percent     2.9%     2.5%         6.2%      15.7%       33.4%     28.9%    9.2%    1.1%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      08:00    07:00       07:00       08:00       07:00     07:00   06:00   06:00   05:00                                           07:00
     Vol.       35       34           67        171         307       260     100      12       1                                             945
PM Peak      12:00    12:00       13:00       12:00       12:00     12:00   12:00   12:00   12:00                                           12:00
     Vol.       29       18           54        150         261       170      52       7       1                                             739
    Total      759      598        1765        4241        8883      7429    2295     295      25      3       0       0       0       0    26293
 Percent     2.9%     2.3%         6.7%      16.1%       33.8%     28.3%    8.7%    1.1%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
                              15th Percentile :          26 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          34 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          40 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          43 MPH

     Stats             10 MPH Pace Speed :            31-40 MPH
                            Number in Pace :               16312
                            Percent in Pace :              62.0%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                    3
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                0.0%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :              33 MPH
                                                                                                                                                       Page 1
                                                                      SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                     88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/12680                                          Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                               E. WASHINGTON (1) NB
                                                                                                                                     South of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                  Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
NB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36       41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25       30       35       40       45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/6/11         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   01:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   02:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   03:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   04:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   05:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   06:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   07:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   08:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   09:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   10:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   11:00         *        *       *        *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
  12 PM         30       31      56       88     174      143        64      11       0       0       0       0       0       0    597       31-40       317
   13:00        38       22      59       97     173      142        65      15       1       0       0       0       0       0    612       31-40       315
   14:00        48       42      76     130      170      140        58      16       3       0       0       0       0       0    683       31-40       310
   15:00        52       50      70     121      173      140        73      12       2       0       0       0       0       0    693       31-40       313
   16:00        77       52      92     130      158      118        68      12       2       0       0       0       0       0    709       26-35       288
   17:00        90       50      61     117      173      134        81      22       5       1       0       0       0       0    734       31-40       307
   18:00        44       27      59     127      176      162        70      13       4       0       0       0       0       0    682       31-40       338
   19:00        26       22      34       65     137      133        64      21       1       1       0       0       0       0    504       31-40       270
   20:00         4        0      15       59     113      119        47      14       4       0       0       0       0       0    375       31-40       232
   21:00         3        0       2       18       83       99       54      18       2       0       0       0       0       0    279       31-40       182
   22:00         3        0       1       16       38       71       47      17       6       0       0       0       0       0    199       36-45       118
   23:00         4        0       0        4       19       38       48      17       2       0       0       0       0       0    132       36-45        86
    Total     419      296     525      972     1587     1439      739     188       32       2       0       0       0       0   6199
 Percent     6.8%     4.8%    8.5%    15.7%    25.6%    23.2%    11.9%    3.0%    0.5%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak
     Vol.
PM Peak      17:00    16:00   16:00   14:00    18:00    18:00    17:00    17:00   22:00   17:00                                   17:00
     Vol.       90       52      92     130     176       162       81       22       6       1                                     734
                                                                                                                                                       Page 2
                                                                      SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                     88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/12680                                          Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                               E. WASHINGTON (1) NB
                                                                                                                                     South of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                  Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
NB
  Start          1       16      21       26       31       36       41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25       30       35       40       45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/7/11         0        0       0        0        3       21       21      10       4       2       0       0       0       0     61       36-45        42
   01:00         0        0       0        0        4       12       13       4       1       0       0       0       0       0     34       36-45        25
   02:00         0        0       0        0        1        6        3       2       1       0       0       0       0       0     13       34-43        10
   03:00         0        0       0        1        3        5        0       0       2       0       0       0       0       0     11       30-39         8
   04:00         0        0       0        0        2        4        1       2       0       0       0       0       0       0      9       30-39         6
   05:00         1        0       1        4        9       15       12       6       1       0       0       0       0       0     49       33-42        27
   06:00         4        1       5       13       38       50       46      16       0       0       0       0       0       0    173       36-45        96
   07:00        31       15      23       39      100       89       57      29       7       0       0       0       0       0    390       31-40       189
   08:00        12        8      22       56      118      135       69      35       4       1       0       0       0       0    460       31-40       253
   09:00        22       20      30       78      128      132       51      11       2       0       0       0       0       0    474       31-40       260
   10:00        31       18      43       93      164      129       63      11       3       0       0       0       0       0    555       31-40       293
   11:00        35       27      56      110      171      139       69      14       2       0       0       0       0       0    623       31-40       310
  12 PM         43       41      56      123      131      113       72      20       4       2       0       0       0       0    605       26-35       254
   13:00        40       28      41      103      145      149       77      26       6       2       0       0       0       0    617       31-40       294
   14:00        71       47      60      114      145      142       62      17       1       0       2       0       0       0    661       31-40       287
   15:00        90       54      87      117      124      121       50      24       5       1       0       0       0       0    673       29-38       245
   16:00        66       37      75      106      156      143       84      35       3       0       0       0       0       0    705       31-40       299
   17:00        83       47      71      102      171      153       75      34       9       2       0       0       0       0    747       31-40       324
   18:00        79       49      52       95      143      146       80      30       2       0       0       0       0       0    676       31-40       289
   19:00        30       10      37       95      156      145      107      34       2       1       0       0       0       0    617       31-40       301
   20:00        22        4      29       60      116      143       63      17       5       2       1       0       0       0    462       31-40       259
   21:00         7        1       6       25       85      104       65      33       6       0       0       0       0       0    332       31-40       189
   22:00         3        0       0        8       30       71       39      27       2       0       0       0       0       0    180       36-45       110
   23:00         2        0       1        2       14       36       44      26       5       0       1       0       0       0    131       36-45        80
    Total      672      407     695     1344     2157     2203     1223     463      77      13       4       0       0       0   9258
 Percent     7.3%     4.4%    7.5%    14.5%    23.3%    23.8%    13.2%    5.0%    0.8%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      11:00    11:00   11:00    11:00    11:00    11:00    08:00   08:00   07:00   00:00                                   11:00
     Vol.       35       27      56      110      171      139       69      35       7       2                                     623
PM Peak      15:00    15:00   15:00    12:00    17:00    17:00    19:00   16:00   17:00   12:00   14:00                           17:00
     Vol.       90       54      87      123      171      153      107      35       9       2       2                             747
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 3
                                                                                  SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                                 88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/12680                                                      Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                           E. WASHINGTON (1) NB
                                                                                                                                                 South of Chestnut Street
                                                                                                                                              Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
NB
  Start          1       16           21         26          31         36       41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20           25         30          35         40       45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/8/11         0        0            0          2          12         18       21      12       4       0       0       1       0       0     70       36-45        39
   01:00         0        0            0          0           4         19       16      10       1       0       0       0       0       0     50       36-45        35
   02:00         0        0            0          0           5          8        4       1       4       0       0       0       0       0     22       31-40        13
   03:00         0        0            0          0           2          4        8       1       3       0       0       0       0       0     18       34-43        12
   04:00         0        0            0          0           2          5        5       2       1       0       0       0       0       0     15       34-43        10
   05:00         0        0            1          4           9         19       17       3       2       0       0       0       0       0     55       36-45        36
   06:00         3        0            3          9          37         57       42      20      10       0       0       0       0       0    181       34-43        99
   07:00        14        6           12         32          77        106       79      39      11       1       0       0       0       0    377       34-43       186
   08:00        28       10           21         57          93        123       82      30       6       2       0       0       0       0    452       31-40       216
   09:00        28       20           35         51         119        136       82      24       5       2       0       0       0       0    502       31-40       255
   10:00        29       21           38         72         132        140       73      29       5       0       0       0       0       0    539       31-40       272
   11:00        48       16           54         71         151        108       71      23       7       0       0       0       0       0    549       31-40       259
  12 PM         38       25           51         94         146        146       87      25       8       0       0       0       0       0    620       31-40       292
   13:00        25       16           21         78         113        112       60      27       7       1       0       0       0       0    460       31-40       225
   14:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   15:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   16:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   17:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   18:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   19:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   20:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   21:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   22:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   23:00         *        *            *          *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
    Total      213     114          236         470         902       1001      647    246       74       6       0       1       0       0   3910
 Percent     5.4%     2.9%         6.0%      12.0%       23.1%      25.6%    16.5%    6.3%    1.9%    0.2%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      11:00    10:00       11:00       10:00       11:00      10:00    08:00   07:00   07:00   08:00           00:00                   11:00
     Vol.       48       21           54         72         151        140       82      39      11       2               1                     549
PM Peak      12:00    12:00       12:00       12:00       12:00      12:00    12:00   13:00   12:00   13:00                                   12:00
     Vol.       38       25           51         94         146        146       87      27       8       1                                     620
    Total     1304     817         1456        2786        4646       4643     2609    897      183      21      4       1       0       0    19367
 Percent     6.7%     4.2%         7.5%      14.4%       24.0%      24.0%    13.5%    4.6%    0.9%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
                              15th Percentile :          23 MPH
                              50th Percentile :          34 MPH
                              85th Percentile :          42 MPH
                              95th Percentile :          46 MPH

     Stats             10 MPH Pace Speed :            31-40 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                9289
                            Percent in Pace :              48.0%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                    26
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                0.1%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :              33 MPH
                                                                                                                                                      Page 1
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/22465                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                              E. WASHINGTON (1) NB
                                                                                                                                            North of Chestnut
                                                                                                                                 Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
NB
  Start          1       16      21      26       31       36       41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25      30       35       40       45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/6/11         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   01:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   02:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   03:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   04:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   05:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   06:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   07:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   08:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   09:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   10:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   11:00         *        *       *       *        *        *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
  12 PM         33       35      18      80     241      261      112       31       2       0       0       0       0       0    813       31-40       502
   13:00        39       22      17      47     227      273      140       24       1       0       0       0       0       0    790       31-40       500
   14:00        31       25      21      78     255      322      140       22       2       0       0       0       0       0    896       31-40       577
   15:00        42       38      26      60     266      373      128       49       4       0       0       0       0       0    986       31-40       639
   16:00        44       47      35      79     252      385      154       46       4       1       0       0       0       0   1047       31-40       637
   17:00        53       39      34      73     310      375      161       32       2       0       0       0       0       0   1079       31-40       685
   18:00        37       25      20      53     247      344      167       27       5       0       1       0       0       0    926       31-40       591
   19:00        24       17      17      44     179      249      138       29       2       0       0       0       0       0    699       31-40       428
   20:00        13        2       1      24     139      172      101       19       2       0       0       0       0       0    473       31-40       311
   21:00         5        1       2       6       80     158        71      14       3       0       1       0       0       0    341       31-40       238
   22:00         2        0       1       9       28       79       79      21       2       0       0       0       0       0    221       36-45       158
   23:00         4        0       0       2       22       54       56      16       2       0       0       0       0       0    156       36-45       110
    Total     327      251     192     555     2246     3045     1447     330       31       1       2       0       0       0   8427
 Percent     3.9%     3.0%    2.3%    6.6%    26.7%    36.1%    17.2%    3.9%    0.4%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak
     Vol.
PM Peak      17:00    16:00   16:00   12:00   17:00    16:00    18:00    15:00   18:00   16:00   18:00                           17:00
     Vol.       53       47      35      80     310      385      167       49       5       1       1                            1079
                                                                                                                                                      Page 2
                                                                     SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                    88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/22465                                         Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                              E. WASHINGTON (1) NB
                                                                                                                                            North of Chestnut
                                                                                                                                 Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
NB
  Start          1       16      21      26       31       36       41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20      25      30       35       40       45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999     Total    Speed    in Pace
  6/7/11         0        0       1       1        4       30       25       8       5       0       0       0       0       0      74      36-45        55
   01:00         0        0       1       1        3       18       10       5       0       0       0       0       0       0      38      36-45        28
   02:00         0        1       1       0        7        4        5       0       1       0       0       0       0       0      19      31-40        11
   03:00         0        0       0       0        1        2        6       1       1       0       0       0       0       0      11      35-44         8
   04:00         0        0       1       1        3        7        3       2       1       0       0       0       0       0      18      33-42        12
   05:00         3        4       5       4       11       37       16       7       0       0       0       0       0       0      87      35-44        53
   06:00        10       11       3      13       37       66       70      30       5       1       0       0       0       0     246      36-45       136
   07:00        30       22       8      25       72      146      139      58      11       2       0       0       0       0     513      36-45       285
   08:00        23       26      16      32      118      209      131      40       8       0       1       0       0       0     604      36-45       340
   09:00        32       28      30      51      176      210      106      19       4       0       0       0       0       0     656      31-40       386
   10:00        38       23      26      65      170      265      113      26       2       0       0       0       0       0     728      31-40       435
   11:00        30       30      29      74      223      283      125      28       3       1       0       0       0       0     826      31-40       506
  12 PM         41       31      33      85      212      242      105      13       5       0       0       0       0       0     767      31-40       454
   13:00        39       35      39      64      200      246      126      36       2       0       0       0       0       0     787      31-40       446
   14:00        62       56      26      77      228      259      134      32       9       2       0       0       0       0     885      31-40       487
   15:00        48       32      23     114      319      351      143      33       4       0       0       0       0       0    1067      31-40       670
   16:00        56       33      34     104      299      372      137      25       4       0       0       0       0       0    1064      31-40       671
   17:00        40       46      27      89      303      363      157      36       8       1       0       0       0       0    1070      31-40       666
   18:00        50       24      24      58      271      369      157      30       1       1       0       0       0       0     985      31-40       640
   19:00        21       24      16      55      205      286      143      36       3       0       0       0       0       0     789      31-40       491
   20:00        14        4       1      45      166      221      111      16       4       1       0       0       0       0     583      31-40       387
   21:00         4        3       2      19      100      162       77      19       1       0       0       0       0       0     387      31-40       262
   22:00         2        1       2      12       49       79       52      11       2       0       0       0       0       0     210      33-42       131
   23:00         1        0       0       4       27       58       49      11       1       1       0       0       0       0     152      36-45       107
    Total      544     434      348     993     3204     4285     2140    522       85      10       1       0       0       0   12566
 Percent     4.3%     3.5%    2.8%    7.9%    25.5%    34.1%    17.0%    4.2%    0.7%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      10:00    11:00   09:00   11:00    11:00    11:00    07:00   07:00   07:00   07:00   08:00                           11:00
     Vol.       38       30      30      74      223      283      139      58      11       2       1                             826
PM Peak      14:00    14:00   13:00   15:00    15:00    16:00    17:00   13:00   14:00   14:00                                   17:00
     Vol.       62       56      39     114      319      372      157      36       9       2                                    1070
                                                                                                                                                                    Page 3
                                                                                   SRPEDD
Weather: SUNNY
Counted by: CC/AGri/AGro/MG
                                                                                  88 Broadway                                                                    Site Code:
F.C./Counter#: U-5/22465                                                       Taunton, MA 02780                                                                 Station ID:
Town: NORTH ATTLEBORO                                                                                                                            E. WASHINGTON (1) NB
                                                                                                                                                          North of Chestnut
                                                                                                                                               Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
NB
  Start          1       16           21          26          31         36       41      46      51      56      61      66      71      76              Pace    Number
 Time           15       20           25          30          35         40       45      50      55      60      65      70      75    999    Total     Speed    in Pace
  6/8/11         1        0            0           3          17         26       23       8       3       1       0       0       0       0     82       34-43        49
   01:00         0        0            0           2           8         28       10       1       2       0       0       0       0       0     51       33-42        38
   02:00         0        0            0           1           3          7        5       5       0       0       0       0       0       0     21       33-42        12
   03:00         1        0            0           0           3          2        8       7       0       0       0       0       0       0     21       39-48        15
   04:00         4        1            0           1           5          6        5       2       0       0       0       0       0       0     24       30-39        11
   05:00        10        9            1           2          23         35       17       6       0       0       0       0       0       0    103       31-40        58
   06:00        10       10            3           5          46         94       71      23       2       0       0       0       0       0    264       36-45       165
   07:00        16       27            8          21          97        153      106      38       5       0       0       0       0       0    471       36-45       259
   08:00        33       30            5          44         121        212      116      32       4       2       0       0       0       0    599       31-40       333
   09:00        29       22           16          46         188        229       97      26       4       2       0       0       0       0    659       31-40       417
   10:00        30       38           32          68         215        229       86      35       3       0       0       0       0       0    736       31-40       444
   11:00        37       25           24          89         248        251       93      17       6       0       0       0       0       0    790       31-40       499
  12 PM         28       35           17          49         222        266      126      22       7       0       0       0       0       0    772       31-40       488
   13:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   14:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   15:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   16:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   17:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   18:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   19:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   20:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   21:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   22:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
   23:00         *        *            *           *           *          *        *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *       *          *         *
    Total      199      197         106         331         1196       1538      763     222      36       5       0       0       0       0   4593
 Percent     4.3%     4.3%         2.3%        7.2%       26.0%      33.5%    16.6%    4.8%    0.8%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
AM Peak      11:00    10:00       10:00       11:00        11:00      11:00    08:00   07:00   11:00   08:00                                   11:00
     Vol.       37       38           32          89         248        251      116      38       6       2                                     790
PM Peak      12:00    12:00       12:00       12:00        12:00      12:00    12:00   12:00   12:00                                           12:00
     Vol.       28       35           17          49         222        266      126      22       7                                             772
    Total     1070     882          646        1879         6646       8868     4350    1074     152      16      3       0       0       0    25586
 Percent     4.2%     3.4%         2.5%        7.3%       26.0%      34.7%    17.0%    4.2%    0.6%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
                              15th Percentile :           29 MPH
                              50th Percentile :           36 MPH
                              85th Percentile :           43 MPH
                              95th Percentile :           45 MPH

     Stats             10 MPH Pace Speed :             31-40 MPH
                            Number in Pace :                15514
                            Percent in Pace :               60.6%
              Number of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                     19
              Percent of Vehicles > 55 MPH :                 0.1%
                      Mean Speed(Average) :               35 MPH
