                                                                                                    ITEM ORD 00-04734
                                         VILLAGE OF DOWNERS GROVE
                                   REPORT FOR THE VILLAGE COUNCIL MEETING
                                         JANUARY 10, 2012 AGENDA

 SUBJECT:                                 TYPE:                               SUBMITTED BY:
                                                  Resolution
                                                  Ordinance
 Prince Street closure -                          Motion                      Tom Dabareiner, AICP
 Right-of-Way Vacation                            Discussion Only             Community Development Director

SYNOPSIS
An ordinance has been prepared vacating the 66-foot wide by 600-foot long portion of the Prince Street
right-of-way located between Grant Street on the south, Sherman Street on the north and immediately
adjacent to and west of the Downers Grove North High School properties. Approval of the vacation
requires five affirmative votes.

STRATEGIC PLAN ALIGNMENT
The goals for 2011 to 2018 include Exceptional Municipal Services.

FISCAL IMPACT
Per the Village Council policy, the Village Council determines the amount and type of compensation, if any,
that is required. Staff recommends the Village Council waive the $147,722 fair market value for the right-of-
way.

The fair market value is based on the latest assessment of land adjacent to the right-of-way. The portion of the
right-of-way which would be encumbered by an easement would be discounted while the portion of the right-
of-way that is not encumbered would be fully valued. The table below summarizes the estimated value:

        Portion of right-of-way encumbered by a public drainage, utility and utility access easement
                Adjacent            Square Foot    SF of ROW to be         Estimated          Encumbered
           Property Address         Land Value          vacated              Value               Value
        4434 Prince Street        $          7.44       29,470          $ 219,256.80 $               72,355

        Portion of right-of-way not encumbered with an easement
                Adjacent             Square Foot                                             Estimated
                                                        SF of ROW to be vacated
           Property Address          Land Value                                                Value
        4434 Prince Street        $           7.44              10,130                     $      75,367

                                                     Total value of street to be vacated $        147,722
  UPDATE & RECOMMENDATION
  This item was discussed at the January 3, 2012 Village Council meeting. Based on Council
  discussion on the parking lot operations, staff requested that District 99 officials provide
  additional information on bus operations on the proposed parking lot on the west side of Main
  Street. The District's response is attached.

  Additionally, in response to Council discussion on design and impacts of proposed future parking
  improvements on the east side of Main Street, staff has prepared the attached list of items that
  will be reviewed prior to the issuance of permits.

  Staff recommends approval on the January 10, 2012 Active Agenda. Approval of the vacation
  requires five affirmative votes.



BACKGROUND
Community High School District 99 (CHSD99) is requesting that the Village vacate a 66-foot wide by
600-foot long portion of the Prince Street right-of-way located between Grant Street on the south and
Sherman Street on the north. The vacation would result in the closure of this portion of Prince Street. The
street is immediately adjacent to the west side of the Downers Grove North High School property. The
right-of-way is improved with a 28-foot wide street, a sidewalk on the east side and street trees on both
sides. The petitioner owns all six parcels that abut the right-of-way proposed to be vacated.

The proposed street closure and vacation would enable CHSD99 to undertake a comprehensive
redevelopment of the area. The request would allow CHSD99 to construct a new parking lot, a plaza with
a bathroom building and canopy and a walkway running north and south from Grant Street to Sherman
Street.

Based on the Village's Right-of-Way Vacation Policy (Resolution #2003-58), staff contacted the utility
companies and outside public agencies (including the Police, Fire and Public Works Departments, School
Districts, Sanitary District and Downers Grove Park District) to determine if any rights to the public right-
of-way should be retained. The right-of-way contains gas, sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water mains.
Primary cable and electric service lines are located within the Grant and Sherman Street rights-of-way and
are not affected by the proposed vacation.

Staff recommends retaining a public drainage, utility and utility access easement over a 48-foot wide by
600-foot long portion of the right-of-way being vacated. Additionally, the easements will cover portions
of the sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water mains that run to the east and connect to mains within the
Main Street right-of-way. The easement provisions will provide adequate space for any future utility
maintenance and needs. Except for a driveway, walkway, landscaping and fencing, future construction
within the easement will be prohibited. The petitioners have been informed of this requirement and are not
objecting.

A traffic impact study was completed due to the proposed closure of Prince Street. The study found that the
proposed street closure would not result in significant impacts to the adjacent road network. Currently, the
street is almost exclusively used for school related traffic. The study found non-school related traffic destined
for Ogden Avenue typically uses Saratoga Avenue due to the presence of a traffic light at that intersection.
Staff reviewed the traffic impact study and concurred with its findings.

Staff believes the proposed street closure is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. The Comprehensive
Plan recommends that the Village `promote the continued operation and improvement of both public and
private school facilities, ensure they do not impact residential neighborhoods, and cooperate with the
various organizations to maintain high quality school sites and facilities.' The proposed street closure
meets this recommendation by providing the School District an opportunity to improve their facilities in a
high quality manner while eliminating on-street bus stacking and not negatively impacting the adjacent
road system in the neighborhood.

The Plan Commission considered the petition at their November 7, 2011 meeting. A number of residents
spoke with concerns regarding traffic operations and the thoroughness of the original study. These
concerns included:

   1. Congestion at the intersections of Grant and Prince Streets and Grant Street and Saratoga Avenue;
   2. Parking on Prince Street south of Grant Street; and
   3. Overflow bus and vehicle parking on Saratoga Avenue.

The petitioner completed an additional traffic study on November 29, 2011 to examine resident concerns.
The study found:

   1. The highest intersection traffic volumes (Grant Street and Saratoga Avenue, Grant and Prince
      Streets, Sherman Street and Saratoga Avenue and Sherman and Prince Streets) occur during the
      morning peak hour (7:30-8:30 am), the evening peak hour (5:30-6:30 pm) had the second highest
      intersection volumes while the afternoon peak hour (3:00-4:00 pm) had the lowest intersection
      traffic volumes. The study found the morning peak hour experienced 1,117 vehicles within the
      four intersections, which is 169 more vehicles than the evening peak hour and 219 more vehicles
      than the afternoon peak hour. The study found all intersections operate with minimal delay during
      these peak hours.
   2. The study also observed parents circling the block and parking in no parking/standing zones while
      dropping-off or picking up students. While this activity did not result in traffic delays, it did result
      in confusing and irregular movements, including U-turns within the intersection of Grant and
      Prince Streets. With the addition of a proposed parking lot immediately north of Grant Street, it is
      anticipated that student pick-up and drop-off will take place within the parking lot and eliminate
      much of the on-street confusion.
   3. With the addition of the parking lot it is anticipated that the overflow parking that is observed on
      Saratoga Avenue during after-school events will be relocated to the parking lot.

Staff believes the additional traffic counts completed are consistent with the original study findings. Staff
will monitor and review parking, access and intersection controls in response to resident concerns to
determine if adjustments to the development are necessary.

The Plan Commission found the proposed closure of Prince Street and right-of-way vacation is consistent
with the Village's Right-of-Way Vacation Policy (Resolution #2003-58), the Zoning Ordinance and
Comprehensive Plan. Based on their analysis, the Plan Commission unanimously recommended approval
of the right-of-way vacation. Staff concurs with the Plan Commission's recommendation.
ATTACHMENTS
Aerial Map
Ordinance
Plat of Vacation
Staff Report with attachments dated November 7, 2011
Minutes of the Plan Commission Hearing dated November 7, 2011
Neighborhood comments from October 27, 2011 CHSD99 neighborhood meeting
Revised easement sketch dated November 7, 2011
Memo - traffic impact study addendum dated November 30, 2011
                       VILLAGE OF DOWNERS GROVE

                           COUNCIL ACTION SUMMARY


INITIATED:                  Applicant                  DATE:      January 10, 2012
                            (Name)

RECOMMENDATION FROM:                        Plan Commission        FILE REF: PC-38-11
                                          (Board or Department)

NATURE OF ACTION:                              STEPS NEEDED TO IMPLEMENT ACTION:

 X        Ordinance                            Motion to Adopt "AN ORDINANCE VACATING A
                                               CERTAIN PORTION OF THE PRINCE STREET
          Resolution                           RIGHT-OF-WAY LOCATED IMMEDIATELY
                                               WEST OF AND ADJACENT TO DOWNERS
          Motion                               GROVE NORTH HIGH SCHOOL IN THE
                                               VILLAGE OF DOWNERS GROVE", as presented.
          Other




SUMMARY OF ITEM:

Adoption of the attached ordinance will vacate a certain portion of a 66-foot wide by 600-foot long
portion of the Prince Street right-of-way located between Grant Street on the south and Sherman
Street on the north and immediately west of and adjacent to Downers Grove North High School
property.


RECORD OF ACTION TAKEN:




1\wp8\cas.11\Prince-Vacate-ROW-PC-38-11
                                                                                                     ROW Vacation -Prince Street
                                                                                                                      PC 38-11

                                         ORDINANCE NO. ________

          AN ORDINANCE VACATING A CERTAIN PORTION OF THE PRINCE STREET
            RIGHT-OF-WAY LOCATED IMMEDIATELY WEST OF AND ADJACENT
                     TO DOWNERS GROVE NORTH HIGH SCHOOL
                        IN THE VILLAGE OF DOWNERS GROVE

        WHEREAS, it has been determined by the Council of the Village of Downers Grove in DuPage
County, Illinois, that it is in the public interest to vacate a certain portion of a 66-foot wide by 600-foot long
portion of the Prince Street right-of-way located between Grant Street on the south and Sherman Street on the
north and immediately west of and adjacent to Downers Grove North High School property in Downers
Grove, Illinois, in said Village hereinafter more particularly described; and

         WHEREAS, there are certain public service facilities situated in said portion of said right-of-way, and
the Village Council has determined that it is necessary and in the public interest to reserve such rights-of-way
and easements as are in the judgment of the Council necessary or desirable for continuing public service by
means of those facilities and for the maintenance, renewal and reconstruction thereof; and

        WHEREAS, the required public notice has been given and a public hearing respecting said vacation
has been conducted in accordance with applicable law; and

        WHEREAS, the Village Council, after due investigation and consideration, has determined that the
nature and extent of the public use and the public interest to be served is such as to warrant the vacation of
said portion of said right-of-way.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the Village of Downers Grove, in
DuPage County, Illinois, as follows:

        SECTION 1. That the following described property, to wit:

        A 66-foot wide by 600-foot long portion of the Prince Street right-of-way located between Grant
        Street on the south and Sherman Street on the north and immediately west of and adjacent to Downers
        Grove North High School

        Described as:

        That part of the southwest quarter of Section 5, Township 38 North, Range 11, East of the Third
        Principal Meridian, described as follows: that part of Prince Street as heretofore dedicated in E.H.
        Prince and Company's Addition to Downers Grove according to the plat thereof recorded September
        30, 1891 as Document Number 43600 described as beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 1 in Block
        30 in said E.H. Prince and Company's Addition; thence along the easterly extension of the north line
        of said Lot 1, a distance of 66 feet to the northwest corner of Lot 24 in Block 29 in said E.H. Prince
        and Company's Addition; thence south along the west line of said Block 29, a distance of 600 feet to
        the southwest corner of Lot 13 in said Block 29; thence along the westerly extension of the south line
        of said Lot 13, a distance of 66 feet to the southeast corner of Lot 12 in said Block 30; then north
        along the east line of said Block 30, a distance of 600 feet to the point of beginning, in DuPage
        County, Illinois.

(hereinafter referred to as the "Prince Street Vacated Right-of-Way"), is hereby vacated, and that it is hereby
declared that the same is no longer required for public use and that the public interest will be served by such
vacation.

         SECTION 2. An easement is hereby reserved for and granted to the Village of Downers Grove,
County of DuPage, and to utility companies operating under franchise from the said Village including, but not
limited to AT&T, Commonwealth Edison Company, Comcast, the Downers Grove Sanitary District and their
respective successors and assigns jointly and severally, over all areas marked "public utilities easement
reservation" on the plat of vacation of the vacated street right-of-way as described herein for the perpetual
right, privilege and authority to construct, reconstruct, repair, inspect, maintain, and operate various utility
transmission and distribution systems and community antenna television systems and all necessary appliances
and other structures and appurtenances as may be deemed necessary by said Village and for any and all
municipal purposes, over, upon, along, under and through said indicated easements, together with the right of
access across the property to do any of the above work. The right is also granted to cut down, trim or remove
any trees, shrubs, or other plants that interfere with the operation of the utilities. No permanent buildings or
structures shall be placed on said easements, but same may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping,
driveways, fences ("Improvements") and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid
uses and rights. Any installations of Improvements placed in the easement shall be at the property owner's
sole expense and the Village shall not be responsible for repairing, maintaining or replacing any
Improvements. The property owners shall indemnify and hold harmless the Village, its agents, officers and
employees against all injuries, deaths, losses, damages, claims, suits, judgments, costs and expenses which
may arise directly or indirectly from the installation of any and Improvements in the easement area. The
Village shall not be responsible or liable for any damage incurred to the Improvements during or as a result of
any repair, maintenance, operation, use or installation of equipment or facilities within the easement area. All
installations of Improvements shall be subject to the ordinances of the Village of Downers Grove. Easements
are hereby reserved for and granted to the Village of Downers Grove and other governmental authorities
having jurisdiction of the land over the entire easement area for ingress, egress and the performance of any
and all municipal and other governmental services.


        SECTION 3.       This vacation shall be subject to the following conditions:

1.      The vacation shall substantially conform to the staff report dated November 7, 2011.

2.      Prior to Village Council consideration, a Mylar copy of the Final Plat of Vacation indicating the required
        easements per the revised attached easement sketch identifying a 46-foot wide easement shall be prepared
        and submitted to the Village.

3.      A mountable curb shall be provided onto the plaza at the south end of the vacated right-of-way.

4.      The 16-foot wide walkway shall be redesigned to provide a 20-foot width that can accommodate an 80,000
        pound emergency vehicle.

5.      The northern gate shall include a lockbox and be designed such that a single individual can operate the gate.


        SECTION 4. That the Mayor and Clerk of the Village of Downers Grove are hereby authorized to
sign the plat of vacation of the Prince Street Vacated Right-of-Way described herein.

         SECTION 5. That a certified copy of this ordinance and an accurate Plat of the Prince Street Vacated
Right-of-Way, which specifically includes the easement language contained in Section 2 of this ordinance,
shall be filed for record by the Clerk of the Village of Downers Grove in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds,
DuPage County, Illinois, at the Petitioner's expense.

       SECTION 6. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
ordinance are hereby repealed.

        SECTION 7. That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
                                        _________________________
                                               Mayor
Passed:
Published:
Attest: _____________________________
          Village Clerk

                                                       1\wp8\ord.11\812-820-Randall-Vacate-PC-03-11
List of Items to be Reviewed Prior to Permit Issuance

In response to Council discussion on design and impacts of proposed future parking
improvements on the east side of Main Street, staff has compiled a list of items that will be
reviewed prior to the issuance of permits for improvements. Staff has not received the plans for
this parking lot.

       Parking Lot access points (vehicular and pedestrian)
       Size of access points
       Pedestrian circulation (in and around parking lot)
       Vehicular circulation (in and around parking lot)
       Control of pedestrian crossings on Main Street Fencing (height, location, appearance and
       openings)
       Screening (Landscaping and fencing)
       Perimeter and internal landscaping
       Impacts of increased impervious area on surrounding neighbors with regard to
       stormwater detention
       Setbacks
       Number of parking spaces
       Dimensions of drive aisles, parking spaces, walk ways, etc.
       Utility connections
       Parking lot lighting
       Effects of headlights on homes on the east side of Highland
       Stormwater water run-off water quality
       Impacts of parking lot on adjacent business (funeral home) & institutional (Gloria Dei
       Church) operations, specifically identifying conflicts
       Impacts of parking lot on surrounding residential properties
       Neighborhood input sought and included in design
       Impact on parkway trees
       Impact to public streets, sidewalks, curb and gutter Impact of increased pedestrian
       crossings at Main and Grant (timing of the traffic signal)
       Opportunities for shared parking with surrounding uses (e.g., funeral home and church)
       Increased garbage generation from parking lot
       Displacement of/Allowance for bicycle parking
       Number of handicap parking spaces ADA Compliance
       Parking lot signage and striping
       Parking lot construction methods (e.g., base, surface, light pole foundations/attachments
       and wiring)
                                         VILLAGE OF DOWNERS GROVE
                                        REPORT FOR THE PLAN COMMISSION
                                           NOVEMBER 7, 2011 AGENDA


 SUBJECT:                               TYPE:                                  SUBMITTED BY:

 PC-38-11
 Prince Street, between Grant Street                                           Stan Popovich, AICP
 and Sherman Street                     Right-of-Way Vacation                  Planner

REQUEST
The petitioner is requesting the vacation of a 66-foot wide by 600-foot long portion of the Prince Street right-of-
way located between Grant Street on the south, Sherman Street on the north and immediately adjacent to and west
of the Downers Grove North High School properties.

NOTICE
The application has been filed in conformance with applicable procedural and public notice requirements.

GENERAL INFORMATION

        OWNER:                  Village of Downers Grove
                                801 Burlington Road
                                Downers Grove, IL 60515

        APPLICANTS:             Community High School District 99
                                6301 Springside Avenue
                                Downers Grove, IL 60516


PROPERTY INFORMATION

        EXISTING ZONING:        R-4 Single Family Residence District (adjacent properties)
        EXISTING LAND USE:      Prince Street Right-of-Way
        PROPERTY SIZE:          39,600 square feet
        PINS:                   n/a (right-of-way)


        SURROUNDING ZONING AND LAND USES
                          ZONING                                         FUTURE LAND USE PLAN
             NORTH:       R-4 Single Family Residence District           Institutional
                              and B-2, General Retail Business
             SOUTH:       R-4 Single Family Residence District           Single Family Residential
             EAST:        R-4 Single Family Residence District           Institutional
             WEST:        R-4 Single Family Residence District           Institutional
     PC-38-11, Prince Street Right-of-Way Vacation                                                          Page 2
     November 7, 2011


ANALYSIS

     SUBMITTALS
     This report is based on the following documents, which are on file with the Department of Community
     Development:

              1.   Application/Petition for Public Hearing
              2.   Project Narrative
              3.   Legal description of the Prince Street right-of-way proposed to be vacated
              4.   Comprehensive redevelopment plans
              5.   Village alley vacation policy (Resolution #2003-58)

     PROJECT DESCRIPTION
     Community High School District 99 (CHSD99) is requesting the Village vacate the entire Prince Street
     right-of-way located between Grant Street on the south and Sherman Street on the north to CHSD99. The
     proposed right-of-way measures 66 feet wide by 600 feet long. The right-of-way is currently improved
     with a 28-foot wide street with a sidewalk on the east side of the right-of-way and parkway trees on both
     sides. The petitioner is requesting the Village consider a right-of-way vacation to enable the school
     district to address parking needs and create an additional athletic field for Downers Grove North High
     School (DGN).

     Currently, there are six parcels that abut the right-of-way, all of which are owned by CHSD99. A single
     large parcel is located on the east side of the right-of-way while five parcels are located on the west side.
     The east parcel houses a DGN building and football field. The northernmost western parcel is currently a
     parking lot for DGN. Single family homes are located on the remaining four western parcels. As shown
     in the table below, the entire right-of-way would be vacated to CHSD99:

             Address              Requested          Requested     Approximate
                                   Width              Length     Increase in Area
      Prince Street ROW             66 feet          600 feet    39,600 square feet

     The proposed right-of-way vacation would enable CHSD99 to undertake a comprehensive redevelopment
     of the entire block located between Sherman Street on the north, Prince Street on the east, Grant Street on
     the south and Saratoga Avenue on the west being redeveloped. Per the CHSD99 redevelopment proposal,
     a soccer field will be constructed on the northern two-thirds of the block while a parking lot for faculty
     parking and bus drop-off and pick-up will be located on the southern one-third of the block. The vacated
     right-of-way would be used partly as an entrance to the parking lot at the intersection of Prince Street and
     Grant Street. A portion of the right-of-way would be converted to a plaza adjacent to the proposed
     parking lot. The plaza would include a bathroom building and an open canopy. The canopy, located
     within the vacated right-of-way, would include columns and a roof but not be enclosed by walls. The
     canopy is intended to provide a place of cover from the weather for students waiting for transportation.
     Extending north from the plaza, a 16-foot wide walkway would run north to the Sherman Street right-of-
     way between the soccer and football fields. The remaining width would be converted to green space. At
     the intersection of Prince Street and Sherman Street, a mountable curb and gate are proposed for
     emergency vehicle access. The vacation of the Prince Street right-of-way is necessary to accommodate
     the redevelopment

     Per the Village's Right-of-Way Vacation Policy (Resolution #2003-58), staff contacted the utility
     companies and outside public agencies (including the Police, Fire and Public Works Departments, School
     Districts, Sanitary District and Downers Grove Park District) to determine if any rights to the public right-
PC-38-11, Prince Street Right-of-Way Vacation                                                            Page 3
November 7, 2011


of-way should be retained. The Sanitary District has a sanitary sewer main running down the center of
the Prince Street right-of-way. A sanitary main also runs east from the Prince Street main to connect to a
sanitary sewer main at Main Street. A Village water main is located within the parkway adjacent to the
western curb of Prince Street. A second water main running east-west immediately south of the track
connects the Prince Street water main to a water main in the Main Street right-of-way to the east.
Additionally, a Village storm sewer runs down the east side of Prince Street. Similar to the sanitary sewer
and water mains, a storm sewer connects the Prince Street storm sewer to a Main Street storm sewer
immediately south of the track. Comcast and AT&T do not have any utilities within the right-of-way.
Overhead electric lines are located within the southern section of both the Grant Street and Sherman
Street right-of-ways and would not be affected by the vacation. An existing overhead utility line runs
across the right-of-way to provide service to the existing football field press box. It is anticipated that this
service will be relocated during the proposed improvements. A gas line is located immediately east of the
eastern curb of Prince Street. There are no other known utilities in the right-of-way.

The applicant is proposing to dedicate a 45-foot wide public drainage, utility and utility access easement
within the right-of-way. It is the Village's opinion that the 45-foot wide easement is not sufficient to
provide access to the existing utilities and to provide adequate space for any future utility needs. The
Village requires a minimum of 10-feet adjacent to each utility. Therefore, the Village is recommending
maintaining a 51-foot wide easement. The easement would extend 26 feet to the west of the centerline of
Prince Street and 25 feet to the east of the centerline. This additional area would provide the Village with
a minimum of 10-feet adjacent to each utility and ensure that there is sufficient access to the existing
utilities and to provide adequate space for any future utility needs.

The southern 93 feet of the easement would be reduced to a 48-foot width to accommodate the proposed
canopy structure. The Village believes the reduction of the easement in this area will not adversely affect
the Village's ability to maintain the utilities in this portion of the right-of-way. To accommodate the
sanitary sewer main that runs from Prince Street to Main Street, the existing easement located over the
football field parcel will be extend to connect to the 51-foot wide easement over Prince Street. To
accommodate the water and sewer mains that run from Prince Street to Main Street, a 35-foot wide public
drainage, utility and utility access easement will be provided over those lines. As such, any construction
within the easements will be restricted to walkways, driveways, landscaping and fencing. The petitioner
has been informed of this requirement and restrictions and does not object to the easement.

The petitioner completed a traffic impact study to determine the impact of the street closure and to
address other issues related to the proposed comprehensive redevelopment at DGN. The study found that
the proposed vacation and closure of Prince Street between Grant Street and Sherman Street would not
result in significant impacts to traffic flow within the area. The study noted existing traffic on this portion
of the right-of-way are primarily related to school buses and existing school parking areas and that all
non-school related traffic destined for Ogden Avenue most likely uses the intersection of Ogden Avenue
and Saratoga Avenue due to the intersection being signalized. The study found that the adjacent roadway
network will continue to function at a similar level of service as it does today.

The Village reviewed the traffic impact study and concurred with its findings related to the vacation of
the Prince Street right-of-way. The existing right-of-way sees minimal non-school related traffic.
Additionally, during the school year, Prince Street between Lincoln Street and Sherman Street and Grant
Street between Prince Street and Saratoga Avenue are closed to traffic between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. to
accommodate school busses. Staff believes the adjacent street system is sufficient to accommodate the
re-directed traffic associated with the vacation of Prince Street.
PC-38-11, Prince Street Right-of-Way Vacation                                                          Page 4
November 7, 2011


COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
The Community Facilities section of the Comprehensive Plan recommends that the Village `promote the
continued operation and improvement of both public and private school facilities, ensure they do not
impact residential neighborhoods, and cooperate with the various organizations to maintain high quality
school sites and facilities.' The proposed Prince Street right-of-way vacation meets this recommendation
by providing the school district an opportunity to improve their athletic and parking facilities in a high
quality manner. The proposed bus parking within a parking lot will eliminate on-street bus stacking
adjacent to 15 residential properties along Prince Street south of DGN. Staff concurs with the traffic
impact study which notes the proposed vacation will not negatively affect the adjacent road system in the
neighborhood. Staff believes the proposed right-of-way vacation is consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan.

COMPLIANCE WITH THE ZONING ORDINANCE
The surrounding properties are all zoned R-4 single family residence district. The right-of-way vacation
will increase the DGN property by 39,600 square feet. If the right-of-way is vacated, the petitioner will
be able to undertake a comprehensive redevelopment of this block. The proposed improvements will be
required to meet all Zoning Ordinance requirements. Because an easement is being placed on a 51-foot
wide portion of the vacated right-of-way, no new buildings or structures, other than a walkway, driveway,
landscaping and fencing, could be constructed within the easement. Staff believes the proposed vacation
is consistent with the Zoning Ordinance.

PUBLIC SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
The Fire Department and the Police Department have reviewed the plans for the proposed vacation. The
Fire Department requires that the 16-foot wide walkway be modified so that it is 20-feet wide to
accommodate emergency vehicles. If CHSD99 desires, the walkway could be a combination of hard
pavement and a grass paver system, as long as the walkway can accommodate a total vehicle weight of
80,000 pounds. Additionally, the Fire Department requires a mountable curb on the plaza to
accommodate emergency vehicles arriving from the south while the northern gate must include a lockbox
and be operable by a single individual.

The Police Department reviewed the proposed vacation and found no concerns with the proposed right-
of-way vacation. The department did have some operational questions regarding the parking lots as well
and those have been forwarded to the petitioner.

NEIGHBORHOOD COMMENT
Notice was provided to all property owners 250 feet or less from the adjacent right-of-way properties in
addition to posting the public hearing sign and publishing the legal notice. Staff has not received any
written neighborhood comment regarding the proposal at this time.

The petitioner held a neighborhood meeting on October 27, 2011. The results of the neighborhood
meeting will be available at the November 7 Plan Commission meeting.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Compliance with the Procedure to be followed in the Vacation of Streets, Alleys, and Public Rights-of-
Way (Resolution #2003-58)
The Village's right-of-way vacation policy asks two key questions when it comes to determining if a right-of-
way can be vacated. These questions and staff's findings are listed below:

     Is there written consent of at least two property owners who abut the proposed parcel to be vacated?
          o The petitioner is the only property owner who abuts the proposed right-of-way to be vacated.
     PC-38-11, Prince Street Right-of-Way Vacation                                                              Page 5
     November 7, 2011


          Are there any known public interests served the parcel?
              o As noted above, staff contacted the utility companies and outside public agencies to
                  determine the extent of pubic interest. Based on their replies, staff has determined the
                  public interests can be addressed by retaining a 51-foot wide public drainage, utility and
                  utility access easement as depicted on the attached sketch. As such, the petitioners will
                  not be able to construct any permanent structure, other than a walkway, driveway,
                  landscaping or fence, within the dedicated easements. The petitioners have been informed
                  of the easement requirements and do not object to them.
              o The traffic impact study found that the proposed vacation will not negatively impact the
                  surrounding transportation system. The study found that current traffic using Prince Street
                  can be accommodated on Saratoga Avenue without a decrease in the level of service
                  currently being provided.

     Based on these findings, staff believes the request complies with the Village policy outlined in Resolution
     #2003-58 and recommends vacating the entire 66-foot wide by 600-foot long Prince Street right-of-way to
     the petitioner with a 51-foot wide public drainage, utility and utility access easement placed over the right-of-
     way to be vacated.

     Per the right-of-way vacation policy, staff has determined the fair market value of the vacated right-of-way
     based on the latest assessment of land adjacent to the right-of-way. When land will be encumbered with an
     easement, land is generally valued at one-third (1/3) of the value of the same property that does not have an
     easement. As such, the portion of the right-of-way that will be encumbered with an easement will be valued
     at one-third, while the remaining portion of the right-of-way will be valued at full value. Based on the
     required easements, 30,761 square feet of the 39,600 square foot right-of-way will be encumbered with a
     public drainage, utility and utility access easement. The remaining 8,839 square feet of vacated right-of-way
     will not be encumbered with an easement.

     The table below summarizes the estimated value:

     Portion of right-of-way encumbered by a public drainage, utility and utility access easement
             Adjacent            Land       Lot Size     Square Foot SF of ROW to            Estimated     Encumbered
        Property Address        Value    (Square Feet) Land Value          be vacated         Value           Value
     4434 Prince Street        $ 98,140     13,188       $        7.44        30,761       $ 228,911.48   $     75,541

     Portion of right-of-way not encumbered with an easement
             Adjacent             Land      Lot Size     Square Foot SF of ROW to   Estimated
        Property Address         Value   (Square Feet) Land Value     be vacated     Value
     4434 Prince Street        $ 98,140     13,188      $       7.44     8,839    $      65,776

                                                             Total value of Right-of-Way to be vacated $       141,317

     Per the right-of-way vacation policy, the Village Council determines the amount and type of compensation, if
     any, that is required. CHSD99 has requested waiving the compensation fee. Staff recommends the Village
     waive the $141,317 compensation fee.

RECOMMENDATIONS

     Staff believes the proposed right-of-way vacation is consistent with the Village's Comprehensive Plan,
     right-of-way vacation policy (Resolution #2003-58) and surrounding zoning and land use classifications.
     Based on the findings listed above, staff recommends that the Plan Commission make a motion
PC-38-11, Prince Street Right-of-Way Vacation                                                                    Page 6
November 7, 2011


recommending approval of the Prince Street right-of-way vacation associated with PC-38-11 to the
Village Council subject to the conditions below:

    1. The vacation shall substantially conform to the staff report dated November 7, 2011.
    2. Prior to final Village Council consideration, a Mylar copy of the Final Plat of Vacation indicating
       the required easements per the attached easement sketch shall be prepared and submitted to the
       Village.
    3. The Village shall waive the $141,317 compensation for the vacated right-of-way.
    4. A mountable curb shall be provided onto the plaza at the south end of the vacated right-of-way.
    5. The 16-foot wide walkway shall be redesigned to provide a 20-foot width that can accommodate an
       80,000 pound emergency vehicle.
    6. The northern gate shall include a lockbox and be designed such that a single individual can operate
       the gate.

Staff Report Approved By:



___________________________
Tom Dabareiner, AICP
Director of Community Development

TD:sp
-att

P:\P&CD\PROJECTS\PLAN COMMISSION\2011 PC Petition Files\PC-38-11 DG North High School - ROW Vacation\Staff Report PC-38-
11.doc
           Village of Downers Grove
           Official Village Policy Approved by Village Council
                      Procedure to be Followed in the Vacation of Streets, Alleys, and Public
       Description:   Rights-of-Way

    Res. or Ord. #:   Res. 2003-58                                        Effective Date:        7/1/03

         Category:    Planning and Community Development

                               New Council Policy
                                                                         6/24/74, 8/11/80,
                                                                         10/21/91, 7/6/93,
                       X       Amends Previous Policy Dated:                and 4/5/99

                                Description of Previous Policy (if different from above):

                                 Vacation of Streets or Alleys or Portions Thereof



                                             RESOLUTION 2003-58

                         RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING A PROCEDURE
                           TO BE FOLLOWED IN THE VACATION OF
                       STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
                       IN THE VILLAGE OF DOWNERS GROVE, ILLINOIS


       WHEREAS, pursuant to applicable law, the Village Council of the Village of Downers Grove has the
power and authority to vacate streets, alleys and public rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village; and

         WHEREAS, the Council of the Village of Downers Grove has determined that it is in the best interests
of the Village to establish a procedure to be followed in determining whether a particular street, alley or right-
of-way should be vacated, the method by which such vacation should be accomplished, and the compensation,
if any, to be paid with respect thereto,

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Council of the Village of Downers Grove, in
DuPage County, Illinois, as follows:

        1. That the following procedure shall, in all events, be followed in processing, considering and acting
        upon requests for the vacation of streets, alleys and public rights-of-way located within the corporate
        limits of the Village of Downers Grove:

                a. The person or persons desiring the vacation of a particular street, alley or public right-of-
                   way (the "Petitioner"), shall file with the Village a written petition on a prescribed form
                   requesting such vacation, which petition shall contain the following information:

                         (i)       name and address of the Petitioner;
                       (ii)    the location, and if possible, the legal description of the street, alley or public
      right-of-way to be vacated (the "Parcel");

                        (iii)   names and addresses of all owners of record of property abutting upon the
                                Parcel, and a statement as to the frontage in terms of lineal feet of each parcel
                                of property so abutting the Parcel;

                        (iv)    a statement as to the type of any known public service facilities over, under or
                                upon the Parcel, and the name of the public utility owning the same.

                        (v)     the written consent of at least two property owners who abut the proposed
                                parcel to be vacated.

                        (vi)    a fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall be paid to the Village, provided
                                that no such fee shall be required if the Petitioner is a public body. This fee
                                shall be used to pay for Staff processing of the petition, hearing notice
                                publication and plat recordation costs. This fee does not include the cost of
                                the plat preparation or the appraisal(s) of the fair market value of the Parcel
                                (as outlined in section 1(g)).

               b.       Staff shall cause written notice of the proposed vacation of the Parcel to be mailed to
                        all public utilities with a request that such utilities inform the Village of any easements
                        over, under, or upon the Parcel which must be retained at the time of vacation, and to
                        units of local government having an interest in the Parcel. Failure of any such owner
                        of record or public utility to receive such notice shall not invalidate, impair or
                        otherwise affect the validity of any vacation that may thereafter occur.

               c.       Staff shall evaluate the request and prepare a staff report, taking into consideration the
                        nature of the request, including known public interests, if any, served by the Parcel. In
                        doing so, Staff shall verify the information contained in the petition in order to assure
                        that all required owners of property abutting the Parcel are named and that all existing
                        public service facilities have been disclosed, if any, to the Village to affect such
                        vacation. The following informational items shall be included in the staff report:

                        (i)     A map showing the location of the proposed street, alley or public right-of-
                                way to be vacated.
                        (ii)    Information as to current and future use of the street, alley or public right-of-
                                way including:
                                (a)     watermains
                                (b)     storm sewers or storm drainage conveyance or storage facilities
                                (c)     sanitary sewers
                                (d)     electric utilities
                                (e)     natural gas utilities
                                (f)     telephone utilities
                                (g)     vehicular access, public or private
                                (h)     pedestrian access, public or private
                                (i)     public open space

                        (iii)   A recommendation with regard to retention of easements, if any, within the
                                Parcel for the benefit of public utilities, potential use of the parcel for public
                                walkways or bike trails and access of adjacent property owners.




8/20/2004                                               2
                 (iv)         A recommendation regarding the vesting of title to the property upon vacation
                              of the street, alley or public right-of-way. The instrument dedicating the
                              street, alley or public right-of-way must be examined to determine if the
                              specific devolution of the title upon vacation thereof is provided for in the
                              document. If no specific devolution of title is provided for, then a
                              recommendation regarding the vesting rights of the abutting property owners
                              must be made. The Village, in its discretion, may grant title to the entire
                              vacated street, alley or public right-of-way to only one abutting property
                              owner.

            d.   Staff shall forward the petition to the Village Traffic Engineer who shall be
                 responsible for reviewing the request to determine the potential future need for the
                 Parcel, the potential for increased traffic associated with the vacation of the Parcel,
                 and an estimate of future costs to the Village associated with the vacation. This
                 information shall be incorporated into the staff report.

            e.   Upon completion of the staff report, the staff report and the petition shall be referred
                 to the Plan Commission for public hearing. Notice of the time and place of such
                 hearing shall be given not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before
                 the date thereof, by publishing such notice at least once in one or more newspapers of
                 general circulation within the Village. In addition, copies of such notice shall be sent
                 by the Village to the owners of record of property abutting the Parcel.

            f.   The Plan Commission shall forward its recommendation regarding vacation of the
                 Parcel to the Village Council for its consideration.

            g.   Prior to the petition being considered by the Village Council, the Petitioner must
                 submit an appraisal conducted by a certified appraiser. The Village, in its sole
                 discretion, may consider an alternate assessment of the current market value of the
                 Parcel in lieu of an appraisal.

                 i)           If the appraisal submitted by the Petitioner is disputed by the Village, the
                              Village in its sole discretion may obtain a second independent appraisal, at
                              Village expense.
                 ii)          If the Petitioner disputes the second appraisal, the Village will contact a third
                              independent appraiser to perform a review appraisal, the cost of which shall
                              be paid by the Petitioner. The Village Council shall then make a final
                              determination of market value which shall be binding on all parties.

            h.   The Village Council shall determine:

                      (i)       Whether the Parcel or portion thereof, is no longer necessary for public use
                                and whether the public interest will be served by such vacation request.
                      (ii)      Whether the Parcel or portion thereof, should be vacated and whether public
                                utility easements and any ingress-egress easements are to be maintained.
                      (iii)     The amount and type of compensation, if any, to be required as a condition
                                to the effectiveness of the vacation of the parcel.

            i.   The Petitioner shall be notified of the decision of the Village Council, and of any
                 conditions placed on the vacation. If the Petitioner desires to proceed with such
                 vacation, the Petitioner shall provide a plat of vacation with reservation of required
                 easements, if any, in a form as prescribed by the Village.



8/20/2004                                           3
               j.      After a statement by the Village Manager that the plat has been prepared and
                       submitted, the Village Council shall consider the ordinance. If the Village Council
                       determines to adopt such ordinance, it shall do so by a 3/4 vote of its members.

               k.      Upon passage of the ordinance, the Village Clerk shall record the ordinance and the
                       plat in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of DuPage County and file such documents
                       with the DuPage County Clerk. Copies of the recorded documents shall be sent by the
                       Village Clerk to the office of the assessor for the township in which the Parcel is
                       located and notice of the effectiveness of the vacation shall be sent to the owners of
                       record of the property abutting the Parcel.

       2.      The validity of any vacation otherwise carried out in accordance with applicable law shall not
       be invalidated, impaired or otherwise affected by noncompliance with any part of the procedure set
       forth herein.


       3.       That Resolutions 74-34, 80-45, 91-43, 99-22 and all other resolutions or parts of resolutions in
       conflict with the provisions of this resolution are hereby repealed.

       4.      That this resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval as
       provided by law.



                                                                               Brian J. Krajewski, Mayor



Passed: July 1, 2003
Attest: April Holden, Village Clerk



1\mw\res.03\vacation-policy




8/20/2004                                             4
                                  PROJECT NARRATIVE
                                              FOR
                        CHSD 99  NORTH HIGH SCHOOL
                       MSP 2011 TIER 1 IMPROVEMENTS



Community High School District 99 is proposing to modify the site conditions at North HS to
address athletic and parking needs of the high school. This endeavor is divided into two (2)
Phases. The first phase, constructed this summer, was to address athletic needs by replacing the
grass football field with synthetic turf, replacing the track, moving the softball field to the west
side of Main Street and creating a playable grass area to the north of the relocated softball field
for PE and athletics. Phase 2, scheduled for the spring/summer of 2012, will address the parking
needs and create an additional athletic field. Phase 2 will occur to the east and west of the high
school. Please refer to the attached color rendering depicting all improvements.

To address the student parking needs the existing east parking lot and softball field will be
removed for a new parking lot between Grant Avenue and Sherman Street. This parking lot is
divided into a north and south lot by an 8' walkway running west/east. The southern lot will
serve as the parent drop off and main handicap parking and will have an access off of Grant
Avenue. This new Grant access is slightly east of the existing access to allow more queuing at the
Main Street Intersection. The northern section is for student parking and will have an 8' walk on
the west side to transfer students to the signalized intersection at Main Street. A fence is
proposed to the west of this walkway to block students from freely crossing Main Street. To
access this northern lot two locations are proposed; one off of Sherman Street and one off of
Highland Avenue.

For the western improvements the seven (7) residential houses along Prince Street, Grant Avenue
and Saratoga Avenue will be demolished and a vacation of Prince Street between Sherman Street
and Grant Avenue is requested. The houses are now owned by CHSD 99 and will be demolished
so that the new west parking lot can be located closer to the school' west entrance. The new
west parking lot will be faculty parking and service as the bus drop off and pick up. The vacation
of Prince Street is being requested to create a much needed additional athletic field to bring an
athletic event back on school campus and to connect this field with the track area for one athletic
complex. At the current location of Prince Street, a 16' wide walkway is being proposed for
pedestrians, district maintenance vehicles and emergency vehicles. Mountable curb and a gate
are proposed at the southeast corner of Prince and Sherman for vehicle access. The attached
Geometric Plan West (24x36) depicts the improvements to the west and the 16' walkway within
the requested Vacation of Prince Street.
October 26, 2011



Village of Downers Grove-Civic Center
Department of Community Development
801 Burlington Ave.
Downers Grove, IL 60515-4782

Re: PC-38-11 Prince Street Right-of-Way Vacation

To Whom It May Concern:

Community High S   chool District 99, a public taxing body, hereby requests waiver of compensation fees
associated with the vacation of Prince S  treet in the amount of $142,115. District 99 believes the
taxpayers of the Village and School District are best served by waiving these fees.

The vacation of Prince Street, between the intersections of Grant S treet to the south and Sherman
Avenue to the north, will allow the school district to improve the North High S chool campus by
connecting its western-most property with the main campus, thereby providing better pedestrian and
school bus access to the campus in a safer and more effective manner.

We would appreciate your consideration and approval to waive these fees. Should you have any
questions, please do not hesitate to contact me at 630-795-7142.

Sincerely,


Martin W. Schack



cc. Dr. Mark McDonald-S   chool Superintendent
    Bill White-Board of Education President
    Mark S taehlin-Controller
DRAFT

PC-38-11 A petition seeking a right-of-way vacation of a 66-foot wide by 600-foot long portion of
the Prince Street right-of-way located between Grant Street on the south and Sherman Street on the
north and immediately west of and adjacent to Downers Grove North High School property in
Downers Grove, IL; Community High School District 99, Petitioner; Village of Downers Grove,
Owner.

Chairman Jirik swore in those individuals who would be speaking on File PC-38-11.

Mr. Stan Popovich, Planner, directed the commissioners' attention to the overhead and explained
the petition was a for a vacation of a 66-foot wide by 600-foot long right-of-way ("ROW") along
Prince Street, between Grant and Sherman Streets and immediately west of the Downers Grove
High School football field. The current ROW included a 28-foot wide street with a sidewalk on the
east side and parkway trees on both sides of the street. The six parcels adjacent to the proposed
vacated ROW were owned by Community High School District 99 ("District"), petitioner. The
District was proposing a comprehensive redevelopment of the area to include a new athletic field,
parking lots, and a portion of the Prince Street ROW to be vacated. The only item under Plan
Commission review, however, was the vacation of the ROW. Per staff, associated uses for high
schools were permitted uses within the R-4 zoning districts.

Existing conditions were noted on the overhead, followed by the proposed improvements, which
included the following: a new parking lot on south side of the large parcel between Saratoga, Grant,
Prince and Sherman Streets; a soccer field on the north side of that parcel; a new paved walkway on
the converted ROW; a plaza on the south end with a new bathroom building and canopy. On the
south side of the ROW a new entrance to the proposed parking lot would be installed. A gate would
also be installed adjacent to Sherman Street to block off the walkway so vehicles could not drive in
the area.

Mr. Popovich confirmed that all utility companies were contacted. He proceeded to explain, more
specifically, the location of the utilities within the ROW.

Mr. Popovich pointed out that some revisions were made to the proposal since it was originally
submitted by the petitioner, such as the original 45 foot wide easement proposed for access to the
utilities was revised to 46 feet, after discussions with staff, the petitioner, and the school district.
The extra foot to the west would allow the Village to have 10 feet of space between the existing
water main and the western edge of the easement. Proposed revisions include the incorporation of
easement stubs to provide access for the storm sewer, sanitary sewer and water main. Staff noted
that the revision was now for a 46-foot wide by 600-foot long easement. The petitioner was aware
that no permanent structures would be allowed within the easement area.

Continuing, it was reported that a traffic study for this project was done and it was found that the
street closure would not result in a significant impact to traffic flow in the area. Most of the traffic
in the area was school-related. Non-school related traffic to Ogden Avenue would typically use
Saratoga Avenues since there was an existing traffic light at Ogden Avenue. Staff reviewed the
traffic impact study with the Public Works department and the traffic manager agreed with the
findings in regard to the proposed vacation.

Mr. Popovich discussed that the Comprehensive Plan calls for the Village to promote the continued
operation and improvements to school facilities and ensure that they do not impact residential

PLAN COMMISSION                                     1                              NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT

neighborhoods and to cooperate with the school districts to maintain high quality sites and facilities.
Staff believed the proposed ROW vacation complies with this recommendation. With this vacation,
bus stacking would be eliminated along Prince Street between Grant and Lincoln and not impact the
adjacent residential neighborhood.

Staff believed the proposal was consistent with the Village's Comprehensive Plan and Zoning
Ordinance, and met the requirements of the Village's police department. However, the fire
department did have concerns, and requires including a 20 foot walkway versus a 16 foot walkway;
a mountable curb on the south side of the ROW between the plaza and parking area (for emergency
vehicles); and a gate on the north side to include a lock box to be operable by one person.

Mr. Popovich indicated the appropriate notice was provided for this proposal. Staff received no
correspondence regarding the request from the neighbors. Mr. Popovich indicated the Director of
Public Works received correspondence from a neighbor regarding the design of the proposed
parking lot east of Main Street. The District held an October 27, 2011 neighborhood meeting on
this proposal and the results of the meeting were on the dais. There appeared no significant
concerns with the vacation and the comments were primarily related to changing the parking hours
on Prince Street and lifting the parking ban, which staff could address after the improvements were
made.

Per the Vacation Policy, Mr. Popovich stated that consent was required by two property owners
and, in this case, there was only one property owner adjacent to the proposed ROW. Mr. Popovich
noted known public interests such as the location of utilities within the ROW have been addressed.
Additionally, the traffic study found the proposed vacation will not negatively impact the
surrounding neighborhood. Staff concurs and believed the Vacation Policy was being met. Staff,
however, was recommending to waive the compensation fee, typically required.

Mr. Popovich stated staff recommended the Plan Commission forward a positive recommendation
to the Village Council with the conditions listed on page 6 of staff's report. He reminded the
Commission that two revisions were necessary to the original conditions: Condition No. 2 shall
read, "Prior to final Village Council consideration, a Mylar copy of the Final Plat of Vacation
indicating the required easements per the revised easement sketch identifying a 46 foot wide
easement shall be prepared and submitted to the Village." Condition 3 shall read, "The Village
shall waive the $153,513.00 compensation for the vacated right-of-way."

Chairman Jirik reminded the commissioners that tonight's request was for a vacation of land only.

Mr. Matejczyk confirmed with Mr. Popovich that the vacation was going to facilitate the use of the
proposed parking lot. Mr. Popovich noted that there would be an entrance with the existing ROW
serving on the south side as an entrance to the parking facility and continuing through to Saratoga
Avenue. He identified those properties owned by the school district along Saratoga. Also, he
clarified that the stubs in the revised 46 foot wide easement were indicated in the revised easement
sketch, per Mrs. Rabatah's question.

Mr. Waechtler asked about waiving the compensation for the property. Mr. Popovich stated the
Village Council makes the final decision about payment for rights of way per the vacation policy.
He indicated staff typically makes a recommendation in terms of the value of the right-of-way so
the Plan Commission and public were aware.

PLAN COMMISSION                                    2                             NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT


Chairman recalled the Plan Commission took no position on such recommendations in the past.
Chairman Jirik could not recall if there was another instance where compensation was waived for a
right of way.

Mr. O'Brien, also raised the fact that the Village has a fee waiver policy which allows staff to waive
fees for governments and not-for-profits where no direct costs are incurred by the Village. Mr.
O'Brien indicated he was not aware of any other waivers since the current right of way policy was
adopted in 2003. He stated that there were no other cases where an public agency or not-for-profit
applied for a vacation.

Mr. Mark McDonald, Superintendent for School District 99, 412 Bunning Drive, Downers Grove,
discussed the petition in depth, noting that North High School was constructed on a small amount of
land initially and the school district began purchasing properties back in the 1990s, which were the
properties under discussion. The last home was purchased in July 2011. Planning for the two high
school campuses began back in 2009 but no source of revenue existed until the summer of 2010.
During this time he reported the Board of Education charged the school's administration to address
three issues at the north campus: safety, adding or making better use of the existing space at the
campus, and to create facilities on the campus to conduct more activities and athletic events on the
campus. Details followed on how each of these three issues were being addressed; specifically,
vacating Prince Street west of the stadium for the purpose of enlarging the campus contiguous and
relocating and redefining the bus loading areas.

Continuing, Mr. McDonald stated the current homes that the school district owned would, therefore,
be converted to green space and a bus drop-off and pick-up. The vacation allowed for the
consolidation of spaces within the existing campus, eliminated through-traffic, and allowed for the
relocation of bus drop-offs and pick-ups in the south area of the campus, which he believed was the
safest location for the facility.

Mr. Byron Wyns, Wight & Company, 2500 N. Frontage Road, Darien, Illinois, engineers for the
project, discussed that his offices did work closely with the school district in creating a safe design
for the students and vehicular traffic. He welcomed questions.

Responding to commissioner questions, Mr. McDonald reported that the school the district owned
eight homes on nine lots. Bus ridership was estimated at 500 to 600 students and those students
would be boarding at the newly designed parking area. Asked whether the property on the east side
of Main Street would still be utilized, Mr. McDonald stated it would, only for parking. As to those
students crossing Main Street during the day, he noted they were students crossing daily for
physical education classes and for football practice in the fall. In the spring, students involved in
softball crossed Main Street. With the new proposal, he said those students were removed from
crossing the street, except for the early morning hours, arriving at school or in the afternoon, exiting
school. Students would complete their physical education courses and after-school activities
without crossing a street.

Chairman Jirik opened up the meeting to public comment.

Mr. Chris Patterson, 4502 Prince Street, Downers Grove, fully supported vacating Prince Street.
His concern was traffic control on Prince Street, south of Grant between Grant and Lincoln, due to

PLAN COMMISSION                                    3                              NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT

parents waiting to pick up their students while in the bus parking zone. He asked if there would be
parking and traffic controls to address this issue. For this specific issue, the chairman felt that the
Traffic and Parking Commission could address his concerns. Mr. O'Brien explained the
appropriate steps that would take place to address such issues as the petition moved forward and as
well as stating that District 99 would be educating the parents and installing appropriate signage.

Ms. Mary Plasman, 4440 Saratoga, Downers Grove, asked the commission to not approve or hold
off the vacation until the parking and traffic issues were resolved. She believed the vacation would
impact the area in ways not considered in the traffic report, i.e., no information about the drop-off
and pick-up area with the sports buses and the waiting parents. Other concerns included the buses
exiting their area and barely having enough room to turn out of the driveway and wait for the stop
sign at Saratoga and Grant Streets. She believed the vacation would have a negative impact on the
traffic on Saratoga. She stated the traffic report reflected times when students were basically in
school. Ms. Plasman stated that Saratoga was a narrow street, since she could not back out of her
driveway currently. She asked if the 600 feet length of the vacation could be shortened in order to
have room for the school district to rearrange the entrance/exit of the parking lot. While she did not
oppose the plan, she believed approval of the petition would negatively affect her property. Ms.
Plasman indicated that her property was a rental house and the new parking lot would make the
property less attractive to prospective renter. She also added that the construction traffic will be
heavy and she did not want that traffic parking on Saratoga.

For the record, Mr. Waechtler, stated his understanding was that Mrs. Plasman was asking if it
would be better to shorten the parking lot and relocate it eastward, to allow more room for the buses
to make turns, wherein Ms. Plasman clarified it was a narrow street problem and the driveway
exiting onto Saratoga was directly across from her property. She believed removing the homes
already devalued her rental property because she could not command a higher rent.

In responding to the Chairman's questions, Mr. Popovich explained the review process for the
parking lots, noting the proposed parking lots and improvements to the school's property was
"construction by right" because public high schools are permitted uses in the R-4 district. He went
on to indicate the proposed parking lot would have to comply with the Village's screening and
construction standards.

Chairman Jirik asked there was anything that prohibits the development of either parking lot should
the vacation not be approved. Mr. Popovich indicated the improvements could be made even if the
vacation is not approved. He indicated the closure of Prince Street is the only portion of the plan
that could not be completed without the vacation.

Chairman Jirik went on to confirm that could the parking lots be developed as outlined if the
vacation is denied. Mr. Popovich indicated they could, noting the parking lot design that was on the
overhead would be slightly modified because a vehicle would be coming off of Prince Street.
Regardless of the outcome of this meeting, Mr. Popovich confirmed with the Chairman that the
parking lots could be developed without the vacation.

Ms. Cindy Schram, 4442 Saratoga, Downers Grove, stated her concern was that if the petitioner was
allowed its vacation, what were her rights to work with the school district. She was looking to the
Village to assist the owners so the proposal worked. She supported the proposal, but stated safety
concerns existed in the parking lot and the bus drivers could not see late-coming students. She

PLAN COMMISSION                                    4                              NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT

stated she had no parking at any time in front of her house since buses were loading students or
vehicles were constantly parking and blocking her driveway. She wanted to work with the Village
and the school district to resolve this issue, since it was the first time many of the neighbors had
heard about the proposal.

Ms. Jenny Bauman, 4500 Prince Street, Downers Grove, stated she found out about this proposal
about one week before she was due to close on her home. She found issues with the traffic report,
noting it identified the peak times between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. She stated the
school lets out at 3:20 p.m. and Prince Street was blocked off during these times. She believed that
the morning and afternoon traffic flowed well, but problems arose when students were let out of
their athletic programs between 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. Parents parked on Prince Street to pick up
kids and creating congestion for residents in the area. Ms. Bauman went on to indicate she did not
receive support from the police department during congested times and stated that the existing rules
for safety were not being enforced. She stated she attended the open house meeting and came away
from that meeting with the petitioner having no clear plan for the drop-off and pick-up of the
students. She believed the vacation may need to take place but there needed to be a better plan.
Ms. Bauman questioned the traffic report when it said the volume of cars expected to use the area
would not cause operational concerns; she stated there were operational concerns now.

Ms. Bauman explained that the school did not communicate drop-off/pick-up or other traffic
patterns to the parents at any of the orientation meetings she attended. She indicated that only the
on-site parking rules were explained. She supported keeping the greenscape and not removing
trees.

Mr. Tom Smith, 1205 Grant Street, Downers Grove, shared the same concerns of his neighbors and
he supported the vacation of Prince Street, as it was necessary. This was the first time he heard
about the proposal and believed there was a lack of community involvement from the school
district. He supported more study of the traffic impacts and possible modifications to the parking
lot and bus pick-up area.

No further comments followed. Chairman Jirik closed public participation. Commissioners had no
follow-up questions to the public.

Mr. Byron Wyns, for Wight & Company, responded by explaining that the pick-up and drop-off
area was designed to accommodate the off-street pick-up area into the parking zone after the buses
leave, which included a designated area and a canopy area. He confirmed, as the above neighbor
had stated, that there was no formal plan in place, as he was in discussions with the school district
on how to address the issue and stated he "knows that there has to be something formal put in
place" which was the design that was presented. He stated there was thought put behind the plan.

While the Chairman confirmed with staff that the commission had no purview over the parking lot
at this time, he asked for staff's view on a motion, if the petitioner chose to voluntarily meet with
the neighbors. In response, Mr. O'Brien explained that the petitioner would be encouraged to work
with the surrounding neighbors to address concerns. However, if the Plan Commission believed
that the traffic concerns had not been adequately addressed by the traffic study with regard to the
traffic circulation on Prince Street, the Commission could request more information and have the
petitioner return to a future meeting.


PLAN COMMISSION                                   5                             NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT

The Chairman pointed out that the petition was for a vacation, but the buses have to go somewhere,
which was not in the purview of this Commission.

Mr. Beggs indicated he could only view this petition supposing there was no parking lot plans, then
the question was whether it was a proper request, which he was considering.

Mr. Waechtler noted he did not recall any past vacations with as many ramifications as this request.
He thought the two issues were separate but inter-related. He reiterated the District held a
neighborhood meeting on October 27. Mr. Waechtler acknowledged that the Commission received
a list of concerns raised by the neighbors at that meeting. He questioned whether those concerns
were addressed by the School District. He agreed there were unanswered questions and the
vacation request was much more than a simple vacation where a garage may be involved.

Clarifying his understanding of Mr. Waechtler's comments, the Chairman understood
Mr. Waechtler's comments that a response to the neighbors concerns to traffic issues should have
been included to assist the Commission in its review. Mr. Waechtler concurred, stating along with
some more related items. Chairman Jirik stated it was "the impact of a vacation on an existing
activity, which was more than a level of service."

Superintendent Mark McDonald responded by explaining that he held a public meeting with the
Board of Education back in January, 2009 and discussed the need to create such a plan, which was
posted on the web site. Another meeting was held in the fall of 2009, revealing such a plan, and
issues of safety were addressed. The purchase of the properties began in 2009 and the school
district spoke to affected neighbors. A letter was sent to the neighbors, of which he did not see
because he was not employed by the district then, inviting them to a meeting. He was not aware of
a plan from the 1990's because he did not begin working in the district until 2003. As to
community involvement, he reported that over 100 people were involved from the community,
including booster club parents, parent club meetings at North, and public agencies. The plan was
initially presented to the Board of Education in January 2011 but the board did not vote on the plan
at that time. A second public meeting was held on January 31, 2011 to address issues found by the
Board of Education at that time. The meetings were publicized in the Downers Grove media and
have been on the district's website.

Mr. Keith Matune, member of the Board of Education for Downers Grove North and South
("BOE"), and having been a prior student at North, discussed that the BOE was charged with the
safety of approximately 2,000 students at North. He stated the Master Site Program and Plan
addresses that very fairly. He discussed the streets crossings he did as a student over Main Street
and the buses lining up since the 1970s. If a change was not made, he stated more of the same
would continue. Approximately 25% to 33% of the students ride the bus. With the way the buses
were currently lined up, he said a safety hazard existed, along with other issues, and addressing it
was a better and safe move. He reiterated the ROW vacation was primarily about safety.

Mr. Marty Schack, director of physical plant and operations for the district, said he was employed
since 1983 with the district and has been trying to address and correct the issues at North High
School over the years. He viewed the traffic problems as vehicular and pedestrian and one of the
reasons for the vacation was that students would not have to cross Prince Street if vacated. He did
not want to duplicate the problem on Main Street. Placing the buses in the bus parking lot allowed
better control of the students to their buses. He cited the positives occurring at South High School

PLAN COMMISSION                                   6                             NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT

with a similar bus parking layout. Secondly, as to public input, he reported the open house two
weeks ago was encouraged by Village staff and a list of neighbor concerns were heard, a copy of
which the Commissioners had. He stated the district was considering those concerns as it goes
through further design and review with the Village. No new concerns were raised and he wanted to
ensure those attending tonight's meeting that the district was listening in order to work with the
designer and traffic engineer. Lastly, he noted the District's traffic engineer was present and
believed the study was comprehensive.

Mr. Charles Teuer, traffic engineer with Regina Webster & Associates, responded by explaining
how the scope of study was developed and approved by Village staff. The Village agreed with the
times that would be observed for traffic volumes and levels of service.

Chairman Jirik, again, reiterated that it in his mind there was a single issue that the Commission
needed to think about, which was -- are there traffic effects or other effects that would result from
the closing of a street that the commission believed were significant enough that more information
was necessary or not. He agreed this was a unique situation and the street was also unique. He
opened up the meeting to questions for the petitioner on matters of traffic.

Per Mr. Hose's question about the costs and delays to the school district if the Commission were to
ask for more information, Mr. Teuer could not respond to the question. Dialog followed that it
depended upon if there was a relevancy and what it was to study further.

Mr. Waechtler asked if Mr. Teuer and others involved in the petition, had time to address the
neighbors' concerns, wherein Mr. Teuer stated he received the list on the dais and was in the
process of updating the traffic study accordingly.

Chairman Jirik asked to what extent the items on the list were specifically related to the vacation
wherein Mr. Byron Wyns, with Wight & Company, responded that the comments Mr. Teuer was
addressing were staff comments regarding the traffic study and were not directly related to all the
issues on the list from the October 27th meeting. He clarified there were two different sets of
comments and Mr. Teuer had the staff comments that were accumulated when the October 27
meeting was held. Many of those traffic issues were existing and not based on the new parking
design. He emphasized he was working to address staff comments.

Asked if there were traffic issues directly related to the vacation, no comments were heard. No
further closing statements were made by the petitioner.

The Chairman spelled out the four options available to the Commissioners on how to proceed with a
motion. Mr. O'Brien reminded the Commissioners and public that the Village's planners, traffic
manager and police department reviewed the traffic study. Staff asked the petitioner to study the
surrounding street network to see if the closure of Prince Street would impact the traffic and
pedestrian patterns in the neighborhood. He explained that overall the level of services for
surrounding intersections remained with the closure of Prince Street. Mr. O'Brien indicated staff's
finding, based on the applicant's traffic study, is that there would be no significant impacts to the
traffic patterns if Prince Street is closed. However, he reminded the Commission that staff has
some operational and site planning comments regarding the layout of the parking lot. These
comments were forwarded to the petitioner and will have to be addressed in the petitioner's final
site plan.

PLAN COMMISSION                                   7                              NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT


Mrs. Rabatah asked if the traffic flow between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. would not be
changed with the closure. Mr. O'Brien believed the level of service in the neighborhood would
remain the same and some of those concerns raised by the neighbors were being addressed by
getting the buses off of Prince Street and into the parking lots.

Chairman Jirik queried staff whether staff was recommending that the district prepare an
operational plan, including regular communication with the neighbors, regular surveillance, and
education of sports families on how to pick up their students. Mr. Popovich responded that the
Village's traffic manager was advocating better education of the parents and students for the pickup
and drop-off area. The traffic manager also believed traffic will be improved because specific
parking spaces for the buses were being created, especially for organized sporting events.
Mr. O'Brien called attention to the fact that a plan would be put in place by the District based on
their traffic engineer's recommendation. He indicated once the parking lots were built, the Village
would partner with the School District fine-tune on-street traffic regulations as has been occurring.

The Chairman believed that the plan would create a forum and if the neighbors were upset they
could request to view the plan, and if parts of it were not working a document existed which could
be worked upon to improve the situation. As part of the vacation, Mr. O'Brien was not sure if the
Commission could require an operational plan. Mr. O'Brien also stated that staff had already asked
the petitioner information regarding their use of the proposed parking lots.

Mr. Hose asked staff what its level of comfort was for the period of time outside of the two times
already studied, wherein Mr. O'Brien explained that the two time periods were the peak hours
typically experienced by schools. These time periods would be what one would expect to see in a
traffic study. He indicated that during the afternoon peak, one would expect to see a greater drop in
service at the intersections of the cross streets with Ogden Avenue as school let out. Saratoga was a
street that he felt would experience a bit more traffic in the PM peak due to the signal at Ogden.
Mr. O'Brien noted that Prince provides some relief to the road network.

Mr. O'Brien went on to explain that the evening peak for the road network is likely between the
hours of 5-7 p.m. He indicated that although the traffic study did not specifically address these
hours, it is likely that the road network would function similarly to the peaks identified for the
school in the traffic study. Mr. O'Brien indicated these evening peaks would likely not be affected
by the closure of Prince Street given its function in the street network. He indicated the traffic that
would go to Prince would likely shift to another street in the grid.

Mr. Waechtler suggested clarifying Conditions No. 3 to adding a Condition No. 7 stating "District
99 will prepare an on-going operational plan for neighbors, traffic and parking objections." He
asked for Commissioners' input on new Condition No. 7. The Chairman suggested, after hearing
what staff reported above, to add the following parenthetical: "(This motion recognizes testimony
by staff, noting that an operation plan that addresses traffic issues associated with changes that were
brought about due to this vacation, will be prepared separately by the petitioner as part of the staff's
permitting process.)"

The Chairman asked for other comments. There were none. As such, Chairman Jirik entertained a
motion.


PLAN COMMISSION                                    8                              NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT

WITH RESPECT TO FILE PC 38-11, MR. COZZO MADE A MOTION THAT THE PLAN
COMMISSION FORWARD A POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION TO THE VILLAGE
COUNCIL APPROVING THE PRINCE STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION SUBJECT
TO STAFF'S CONDITIONS LISTED BELOW:

   1. THE VACATION SHALL SUBSTANTIALLY CONFORM TO THE STAFF
      REPORT DATED NOVEMBER 7, 2011.
   2. PRIOR TO FINAL VILLAGE COUNCIL CONSIDERATION, A MYLAR COPY OF
      THE FINAL PLAT OF VACATION INDICATING THE REQUIRED EASEMENTS
      PER THE "REVISED EASEMENT SKETCH IDENTIFYING A 46 FT. WIDE
      EASEMENT" SHALL BE PREPARED AND SUBMITTED TO THE VILLAGE.
   3. A MOUNTABLE CURB SHALL BE PROVIDED ONTO THE PLAZA AT THE
      SOUTH END OF THE VACATED RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   4. THE 16-FOOT WIDE WALKWAY SHALL BE REDESIGNED TO PROVIDE A 20-
      FOOT WIDTH THAT CAN ACCOMMODATE AN 80,000 POUND EMERGENCY
      VEHICLE.
   5. THE NORTHERN GATE SHALL INCLUDE A LOCKBOX AND BE DESIGNED
      SUCH THAT A SINGLE INDIVIDUAL CAN OPERATE THE GATE.
   6. THIS MOTION RECOGNIZES TESTIMONY BY STAFF, NOTING THAT AN
      OPERATION PLAN THAT ADDRESSES TRAFFIC ISSUES ASSOCIATED WITH
      CHANGES THAT WERE BROUGHT ABOUT DUE TO THIS VACATION, WILL
      BE PREPARED SEPARATELY BY THE PETITIONER AS PART OF THE
      STAFF'S PERMITTING PROCESS.

SECONDED BY MR. HOSE.

Mr. Beggs stated he was not sure of staff's authority to make requirements under the permitting
process. Mr. O'Brien responded that as part of the site plan approval, the Village will be granting
ROW permits and access permits which will be an opportunity for the site plan issues to be
addressed. He stated the Commission could strengthen the requirement if it chose, but again,
reminded the Commission it was staff's intent to require the petitioner to answer some of the
questions surrounding the site plan. Mr. Beggs reminded the Chairman that the Commission was
dealing with a separate governmental body and not with a commercial establishment subject to the
jurisdiction of the Village. In response, Mr. O'Brien stated that the district does have to comply
with the Village's Zoning Ordinance, ROW permits and stormwater requirements.

The Chairman pointed out that if the Commission requires the operational plan as part of the
vacation, the petitioner has no option but to prepare the plan.

However, Mr. Beggs disagreed. He stated the vacation depended upon whether the Commission
was creating any hazard to the neighborhood by closing the street. Personally, he did not believe
the Commission was creating a hazard and he did not hear of any hazards being raised at this time.

Mr. Waechtler commended District 99 for all its work over the years and was assured that the
district would continue to work with the neighbors to resolve the issues. The Chairman concurred.

ROLL CALL:


PLAN COMMISSION                                  9                             NOVEMBER 7, 2011
DRAFT

AYE: MR. COZZO, MR. HOSE, MR. BEGGS, MR. MATEJCZYK, MRS. RABATAH,
     MR. WAECHTLER, CHAIRMAN JIRIK
NAY: NONE

MOTON CARRIED. VOTE: 7-0

Staff referenced the meeting dates for 2012 on the dais. Mr. O'Brien stated one agenda item will be
on the December agenda. Copies of the Comprehensive Plan were also available after the meeting.
Copies were also on-line and at the library.

Mr. Beggs added that the discussion on the last petition was very beneficial.

THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED AT 10:05 P.M. ON MOTION BY MR. WAECHTLER,
SECONDED BY MRS. RABATAH. MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE
VOTE OF 7-0.

/s/    Celeste K. Weilandt
       Celeste K. Weilandt
(As transcribed by MP-3 audio)




PLAN COMMISSION                                  10                             NOVEMBER 7, 2011
Master Site Plan Phase 2 Open House                                                    10/ 27/ 11
Neighborhood Comments


Landscaping
   - S  ave as many trees as possible.
   - More green space.
   - Adequate landscaping along Grant (West side of school) to block noise/ view.
   - Additional line of trees between bus parking and soccer field.
   - Highland parkway would like more green space & trees.


Parent Pick-up & Drop off areas
    - Educate parents & students of new traffic flow and pick up area including after school hours.
    - Clear signage & direction needs to be provided for new bus staging areas.


Prince Street closure
    - Restricted parking hours as opposed to no parking anytime (similar to Lincoln St).
    - Parking ban on Prince to be lifted at least on weekends.


Safety Concerns
    - Review of a 4-way stop sign at Grant & Highland to alleviate congestion & better pedestrian
        crossing with increased number of cars.
    - Grant & Highland stop sign NE corner view is obstructed by large pine tree.
    - Residential homes on Highland have obstructed view to North when backing out of driveways
        due to large pine tree.
    - Highland parking lot entrance location directly across from residential driveway is dangerous.
    - S  top sign at Highland & Lincoln to alleviate speeding from Grant to Chicago Ave.
    - Traffic at Grant & Prince currently not being enforced. S  afety needs to be addressed.
    - One way on Grant & Prince (one block West & S      outh of school) to improve traffic.
    - Widen Grant & S    herman to include turn lanes for flow onto Main S   treet.
    - S  tudy traffic jam at the 4 way stop at Saratoga & Grant.
    - Move driveway across from 4440 S      aratoga further North to avoid being directly across
        residential driveway for safety reasons.
                                8619 W. Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602 * Chicago Illinois 60631
                                773 283 2600 * FAX 773 283 2602
                                www.RWAengineers.com




Memorandum


From: Charles H. Teuer, PE, LEED Green Associate                Date: November 30, 2011

To:       Community High School District 99

Subject: Proposed Site Improvements at North High School Traffic Analysis - Addendum



INTRODUCTION
This memorandum serves as an addendum to the Traffic Impact Study (TIS) completed for the
proposed improvements at North High School. The purpose of this addendum is to establish the
existing traffic patterns during the evening period on the west side of the school in the vicinity of the
proposed vacation of Prince Street and evaluate the ability of the proposed plan to accommodate this
traffic in the future.

Traffic Volumes
RWA collected traffic volumes between 4:00 PM and 7:00 PM on Tuesday November 29, 2011 at
the following four intersections:

         Grant Street and Saratoga Avenue
         Grant Street and Prince Street
         Sherman Street and Saratoga Avenue
         Sherman Street and Prince Street

The peak hour of traffic within this time period was found to occur from 5:30 PM to 6:30 PM,
considered the Evening Peak Hour for the purposes of this memorandum. The approach volumes for
the Evening Peak Hour at each of the four intersections are tabulated below. The complete data is
included as an Appendix to this memorandum.

Table 1  Evening Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes (5:30 PM to 6:30 PM)
 Intersection                         Southbound Westbound Northbound               Eastbound    Total
 Grant Street and Saratoga Avenue          156            56             99             20       331
 Grant Street and Prince Street             52            7             117             37       213
 Sherman Street and Saratoga Avenue        142            28            119             --       289
 Sherman Street and Prince Street           56            --             55              4       115
                                                                                   Grand Total   948
For comparison, the Morning (7:30 AM to 8:30 AM) and Afternoon Peak Hour volumes (3:00 PM
to 4:00 PM) from the TIS are tabulated below.

Table 2  Morning Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes (7:30 AM to 8:30 AM)
 Intersection                         Southbound Westbound Northbound         Eastbound     Total
 Grant Street and Saratoga Avenue       109           81           230            63         483
 Grant Street and Prince Street          32           --            89            40         161
 Sherman Street and Saratoga Avenue     115           42           193            --         350
 Sherman Street and Prince Street        58           --            61             4         123
                                                                              Grand Total   1,117

Table 3  Afternoon Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes (3:00 PM to 4:00 PM)
 Intersection                          Southbound Westbound Northbound        Eastbound     Total
 Grant Street and Saratoga Avenue       196           16           131            45         388
 Grant Street and Prince Street          22           --            31             1          54
 Sherman Street and Saratoga Avenue     143           35           184            --         362
 Sherman Street and Prince Street        56           --            28            10          94
                                                                              Grand Total    898

Comparing the total volumes for the four intersections between the above tables, it is noted that the
traffic volumes overall during the Evening Peak Hour are about 170 less than the Morning Peak
Hour and 50 higher than the Afternoon Peak Hour. These differences do not equate to numbers of
cars as one car may pass through more than one intersection and be counted twice as a result, but it
is an indication that the Evening Peak Hour experiences about 18% less activity than the Morning
Peak Hour and 6% more activity than the Afternoon Peak Hour. The capacity analysis conducted as
part of the TIS for these four intersections found that the intersections operate with minimal delay
(Level of Service A) during both the Morning and Afternoon Peak Hours.

Field Observations
In addition to the traffic volume data collected, RWA made observations of the traffic operations.
Following is a list of observations made:

      The majority of traffic on Prince Street was related to student pick-up/drop-off or access
       to/from the student parking lot.
      Parents stopped at the curb in signed No Parking/Standing zones on Prince and Grant Streets
       to wait for students. This had the effect of briefly limiting the movement of through and
       turning traffic and was observed to result in queues of one or two vehicles at a time.
      Some drivers were observed to conduct U-Turn and backing maneuvers within the
       intersection of Prince and Grant Streets to change direction after making a pick-up or drop-
       off.
      No more than five vehicles were observed to be stopped illegally on Prince or Grants Streets
       at a time.
      Some parents were observed to circle the block waiting for students rather than stopping
       illegally.
      In general, queuing and delays at the intersection of Prince and Grant Streets were observed
       to be minimal, even during peak student pick-up times.



               Traffic Impact Study Addendum: Proposed North High School Improvements                2
Evaluation of Proposed Plan
As described in the TIS, Prince Street is proposed to be vacated between Grant and Sherman Streets
with the north leg of the Prince Street and Grant Street intersection to be a driveway to a new
parking lot. The parking lot is expected to be used for school bus boarding and alighting and faculty
parking during the day and to be available for event and other parking needs in the evenings and
weekends.

As part of the analysis conducted in the TIS, existing traffic was redistributed on the roadway
network to account for the closing of Prince Street. The analysis found that the four intersections
discussed in this memorandum would continue to operate at LOS A in both the Morning and
Afternoon Peak Hours, as they do currently. Given that the total Evening Peak Hour traffic volumes
for these four intersections were found to fall between existing Morning and Afternoon Peak Hour
volumes, it was concluded that the Evening Peak Hour traffic will also be accommodated by the
proposed plan.

Field observations indicated that traffic operations in the study area, especially near the intersection
of Prince and Grant Streets, was complicated by student pick-up and drop-off activity on both Prince
Street and Grant Street primarily due to drivers waiting within signed No Parking/Standing zones.
This complication was not observed to result in significant queuing or delay for motorists but did
appear to result in confusing and irregular movements by drivers. The location of the proposed
parking lot north of Grant Street with access from the intersection of Grant and Prince Streets is
expected to allow this evening pick-up and drop-off activity to occur within the parking lot rather
than on the public street. Adjacent to the proposed parking lot, a plaza and canopy are proposed
which will provide a location for students to wait to be picked up. Accommodating this activity off
of the public roadways is expected to result in improved traffic operations on Grant Street and the
portion of Prince Street south of Grant Street that is proposed to remain.

CONCLUSION
The assessments discussed in this memorandum resulted in the following conclusions:
    The traffic volumes observed during the Evening Peak Hour are within the range of the
       Morning and Afternoon Peak Hour volumes observed and used as a basis of the analysis in
       the TIS.
    The TIS analysis found that the four study intersection discussed herein are expected to
       continue to operate at LOS A following implementation of the proposed plan.
    Therefore, the proposed plan is expected to accommodate traffic well during the Evening
       Peak Hour as well.
    Accommodating evening pick-up and drop-off activity within the proposed parking lot is
       expected to further improve traffic operations on the public roadways.




               Traffic Impact Study Addendum: Proposed North High School Improvements                  3
                      Appendix



Existing Traffic Data Collection Reports




Traffic Impact Study Addendum: Proposed North High School Improvements
                                                        Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                                 8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                              773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                                  www.RWAengineers.com

Saratoga Ave & Grant St                                                                           File Name         : Saratoga Ave & Grant St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                                    Start Date        : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                       Page No           :1
                                                                 Groups Printed- Cars - SUs - MUs
                         Saratoga Ave                          Grant Ave                     Saratoga Ave                             Grant Ave
                          From North                           From East                      From South                              From West
 Start Time      Right   Thru    Left    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left App. Total Right Thru     Left       App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Int. Total
     04:00 PM        8     25      1           34         0      2      1          3      0    27      4              31        1       1      5           7           75
     04:15 PM        7     25      2           34         0      0      5          5      1    21      2              24        4       1      6          11           74
     04:30 PM       11     37      4           52         1      4      3          8      1    17      1              19        2       0      5           7           86
     04:45 PM        9     33      3           45         6      4      8        18       0    20      1              21        0       2      6           8           92
         Total      35    120     10          165         7     10     17        34       2    85      8              95        7       4     22          33          327

     05:00 PM       5      35       2          42        0      1       8          9        3     22       0          25        2       3      1           6           82
     05:15 PM       8      26       2          36        2      3       2          7        1     29       0          30        0       1      3           4           77
     05:30 PM       9      33       1          43        1      4       3          8        0     22       0          22        0       2      4           6           79
     05:45 PM       6      39       8          53        2      2       9         13        3     27       1          31        0       2      1           3          100
         Total     28     133      13         174        5     10      22         37        7    100       1         108        2       8      9          19          338

     06:00 PM        0     27       2          29        4       3     12         19        2      22      0          24        0       3      2           5           77
     06:15 PM        3     26       2          31        3       5      8         16        0      22      0          22        0       3      3           6           75
     06:30 PM        1     19       1          21        0       1      6          7        3      15      0          18        1       0      4           5           51
     06:45 PM        3     29       1          33        1       0      7          8        0      13      0          13        0       0      5           5           59
         Total       7    101       6         114        8       9     33         50        5      72      0          77        1       6     14          21          262

  Grand Total       70    354       29        453       20     29      72        121       14     257     9          280       10      18     45          73          927
   Apprch %       15.5   78.1      6.4                16.5     24    59.5                   5    91.8   3.2                  13.7    24.7   61.6
     Total %       7.6   38.2      3.1       48.9      2.2    3.1     7.8       13.1      1.5    27.7     1         30.2      1.1     1.9    4.9         7.9
        Cars        68    353       29        450       16     29      72        117       14     257     9          280        9      18     44          71          918
      % Cars      97.1   99.7     100        99.3       80    100     100       96.7      100     100   100          100       90     100   97.8        97.3           99
         SUs         2      1        0          3        4      0       0          4        0       0     0            0        1       0      1           2            9
      % SUs        2.9    0.3        0        0.7       20      0       0        3.3        0       0     0            0       10       0    2.2         2.7            1
        MUs          0      0        0          0        0      0       0          0        0       0     0            0        0       0      0           0            0
      % MUs          0      0        0          0        0      0       0          0        0       0     0            0        0       0      0           0            0




                          Saratoga Ave                      Grant Ave                            Saratoga Ave                         Grant Ave
                            From North                     From East                              From South                          From West
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru     Left     App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          5      35        2       42       0    1       8              9       3      22      0          25        2       3      1            6          82
    05:15 PM          8      26        2       36       2    3       2              7       1      29      0          30        0       1      3           4           77
    05:30 PM          9      33        1       43       1    4       3              8       0      22      0          22        0       2      4           6           79
    05:45 PM          6      39        8       53       2    2       9             13       3      27      1           31       0       2      1           3          100
 Total Volume       28      133       13      174       5   10      22            37        7     100      1         108        2       8      9          19          338
 % App. Total     16.1     76.4      7.5             13.5   27    59.5                    6.5    92.6    0.9                 10.5    42.1   47.4
          PHF     .778     .853    .406      .821    .625 .625    .611          .712     .583    .862   .250        .871     .250    .667   .563        .792         .845
                                                     Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                              8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                           773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                               www.RWAengineers.com

Saratoga Ave & Grant St                                                                  File Name          : Saratoga Ave & Grant St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                        Site Code          : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                           Start Date         : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                              Page No            :2
                                                                    Groups Printed- Cars
                       Saratoga Ave                         Grant Ave                    Saratoga Ave                         Grant Ave
                        From North                          From East                     From South                          From West
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left App. Total Right Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        6     25      1          32         0      2      1          3      0   27      4          31        1       1      5           7           73
   04:15 PM        7     25      2          34         0      0      5          5      1   21      2          24        3       1      6          10           73
   04:30 PM       11     37      4          52         1      4      3          8      1   17      1          19        2       0      5           7           86
   04:45 PM        9     33      3          45         3      4      8        15       0   20      1          21        0       2      6           8           89
       Total      33    120     10         163         4     10     17        31       2   85      8          95        6       4     22          32          321

   05:00 PM       5      35     2           42        0      1      8        9      3     22       0          25        2       3      1           6           82
   05:15 PM       8      26     2           36        1      3      2        6      1     29       0          30        0       1      3           4           76
   05:30 PM       9      33     1           43        1      4      3        8      0     22       0          22        0       2      4           6           79
   05:45 PM       6      39     8           53        2      2      9       13      3     27       1          31        0       2      1           3          100
       Total     28     133    13          174        4     10     22       36      7    100       1         108        2       8      9          19          337

   06:00 PM       0      27     2           29        4      3     12       19      2     22       0          24        0       3      2           5           77
   06:15 PM       3      26     2           31        3      5      8       16      0     22       0          22        0       3      3           6           75
   06:30 PM       1      19     1           21        0      1      6        7      3     15       0          18        1       0      3           4           50
   06:45 PM       3      28     1           32        1      0      7        8      0     13       0          13        0       0      5           5           58
       Total      7     100     6          113        8      9     33       50      5     72       0          77        1       6     13          20          260

 Grand Total     68     353     29         450       16      29     72     117      14    257      9         280        9      18     44          71          918
  Apprch %     15.1    78.4    6.4                 13.7    24.8   61.5               5   91.8    3.2                 12.7    25.4     62
    Total %     7.4    38.5    3.2          49      1.7     3.2    7.8     12.7    1.5     28      1        30.5        1       2    4.8          7.7
                                                     Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                              8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                           773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                               www.RWAengineers.com

Saratoga Ave & Grant St                                                                  File Name          : Saratoga Ave & Grant St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                        Site Code          : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                           Start Date         : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                              Page No            :3
                                                                 Groups Printed- SUs - MUs
                       Saratoga Ave                         Grant Ave                    Saratoga Ave                         Grant Ave
                        From North                          From East                     From South                          From West
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left App. Total Right Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        2      0      0            2        0      0      0          0      0    0      0            0       0       0      0            0            2
   04:15 PM        0      0      0            0        0      0      0          0      0    0      0            0       1       0      0            1            1
   04:30 PM        0      0      0            0        0      0      0          0      0    0      0            0       0       0      0            0            0
   04:45 PM        0      0      0            0        3      0      0          3      0    0      0            0       0       0      0            0            3
       Total       2      0      0            2        3      0      0          3      0    0      0            0       1       0      0            1            6

   05:00 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0            0       0       0      0            0            0
   05:15 PM       0       0     0             0       1      0       0       1      0      0       0            0       0       0      0            0            1
   05:30 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0            0       0       0      0            0            0
   05:45 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0            0       0       0      0            0            0
       Total      0       0     0             0       1      0       0       1      0      0       0            0       0       0      0            0            1

   06:00 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0            0       0       0      0            0            0
   06:15 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0            0       0       0      0            0            0
   06:30 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0            0       0       0      1            1            1
   06:45 PM       0       1     0             1       0      0       0       0      0      0       0            0       0       0      0            0            1
       Total      0       1     0             1       0      0       0       0      0      0       0            0       0       0      1            1            2

 Grand Total      2       1     0             3       4      0       0       4      0      0       0            0       1       0      1            2            9
  Apprch %     66.7    33.3     0                   100      0       0              0      0       0                   50       0     50
    Total %    22.2    11.1     0         33.3     44.4      0       0     44.4     0      0       0            0    11.1       0   11.1        22.2
        SUs       2       1     0            3        4      0       0        4     0      0       0            0       1       0      1           2            9
     % SUs      100     100     0          100      100      0       0      100     0      0       0            0     100       0    100         100          100
       MUs        0       0     0            0        0      0       0        0     0      0       0            0       0       0      0           0            0
     % MUs        0       0     0            0        0      0       0        0     0      0       0            0       0       0      0           0            0
                                                Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                         8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                      773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                          www.RWAengineers.com

Saratoga Ave & Grant St                                                                File Name      : Saratoga Ave & Grant St Peds
Downers Grove, IL                                                                      Site Code      : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                         Start Date     : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                            Page No        :4
                                                          Groups Printed- Peds & Bikes
                         Saratoga Ave                   Grant Ave                   Saratoga Ave                   Grant Ave
                          Crossing North Leg            Crossing East Leg            Crossing South Leg            Crossing West Leg
     Start Time    Bikes     Peds App. Total    Bikes     Peds App. Total     Bikes     Peds App. Total    Bikes      Peds App. Total   Int. Total
      04:00 PM         0         2          2       0         0           0       0         1          1       0         0          0           3
      04:15 PM         0         0          0       0         1           1       0         0          0       0         0          0           1
      04:30 PM         0         0          0       0         0           0       0         3          3       0         0          0           3
      04:45 PM         0         0          0       0         0           0       0         0          0       0         0          0           0
           Total       0         2          2       0         1           1       0         4          4       0         0          0           7

      05:00 PM         0        0          0        0         0          0        0        6          6       0          1         1            7
      05:15 PM         0        0          0        0         0          0        0        1          1       0          0         0            1
      05:30 PM         0        0          0        0         0          0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
      05:45 PM         0        0          0        0         0          0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
          Total        0        0          0        0         0          0        0        7          7       0          1         1            8

      06:00 PM         0        0          0        0         0          0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
      06:15 PM         0        0          0        0         0          0        1        1          2       0          0         0            2
      06:30 PM         1        0          1        0         0          0        0        0          0       0          0         0            1
      06:45 PM         0        0          0        0         0          0        0        2          2       0          0         0            2
          Total        1        0          1        0         0          0        1        3          4       0          0         0            5

    Grand Total        1        2          3        0        1           1        1       14         15       0          1         1           20
     Apprch %       33.3     66.7                   0      100                  6.7     93.3                  0        100
       Total %         5       10         15        0        5           5        5       70         75       0          5         5
                                                       Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                                8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                             773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                                 www.RWAengineers.com

Prince St & Grant St                                                                                    File Name            : Prince St & Grant St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                                       Site Code            : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                                          Start Date           : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                             Page No              :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- Cars - SUs - MUs
                           Prince St                           Grant St                        Prince St                               Grant St
                          From North                          From East                       From South                              From West
 Start Time      Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left App. Total Right Thru      Left       App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Int. Total
     04:00 PM        3      8       1         12         2      0       1         3      0      5       1              6        0       1       1          2           23
     04:15 PM        1      9       0         10         0      0       0         0      0      6       3              9        0       0       4          4           23
     04:30 PM        1     16       1         18         0      0       0         0      0      9       7             16        2       0       4          6           40
     04:45 PM        7      8       0         15         0      1       0         1      0     14      10             24        1       0       2          3           43
         Total      12     41       2         55         2      1       1         4      0     34      21             55        3       1     11          15          129

     05:00 PM       2       9       2         13        0       0      1           1       1      10       8          19        4       0      5           9           42
     05:15 PM       3       3       1          7        0       0      0           0       0       8       5          13        1       0      3           4           24
     05:30 PM       1       6       0          7        1       0      1           2       0       7       8          15        1       0      5           6           30
     05:45 PM       6       8       0         14        0       0      0           0       0      32       6          38        6       0      7          13           65
         Total     12      26       3         41        1       0      2           3       1      57      27          85       12       0     20          32          161

     06:00 PM       6       8       2         16        2       0      0           2       1      10      14          25        6       0      3           9           52
     06:15 PM       4      10       1         15        1       2      0           3       2      21      16          39        6       0      3           9           66
     06:30 PM       0       5       0          5        1       0      0           1       1       9       6          16        0       0      2           2           24
     06:45 PM       0       7       0          7        0       0      1           1       0      13       7          20        2       1      0           3           31
         Total     10      30       3         43        4       2      1           7       4      53      43         100       14       1      8          23          173

  Grand Total      34      97       8        139        7       3      4         14        5     144      91         240       29      2      39          70          463
   Apprch %      24.5    69.8     5.8                  50    21.4   28.6                 2.1      60    37.9                 41.4    2.9    55.7
     Total %      7.3      21     1.7         30      1.5     0.6    0.9          3      1.1    31.1    19.7        51.8      6.3    0.4     8.4        15.1
        Cars       34      96       7        137        7       3      4         14        5     140      87         232       29      2      39          70          453
      % Cars      100      99    87.5       98.6      100     100    100        100      100    97.2    95.6        96.7      100    100     100         100         97.8
         SU         0       1       1          2        0       0      0          0        0       4       4           8        0      0       0           0           10
       % SU         0       1    12.5        1.4        0       0      0          0        0     2.8     4.4         3.3        0      0       0           0          2.2
         MU         0       0       0          0        0       0      0          0        0       0       0           0        0      0       0           0            0
       % MU         0       0       0          0        0       0      0          0        0       0       0           0        0      0       0           0            0




                             Prince St                      Grant St                              Prince St                            Grant St
                            From North                     From East                             From South                           From West
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left     App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:30 PM
    05:30 PM          1       6        0         7      1    0       1             2       0       7       8          15        1       0      5            6          30
    05:45 PM          6       8        0       14       0    0       0             0       0      32       6          38        6       0      7           13          65
    06:00 PM          6       8        2       16       2    0       0             2       1      10      14          25        6       0      3           9           52
    06:15 PM          4      10        1       15       1    2       0             3       2      21      16           39       6       0      3           9           66
 Total Volume       17       32        3       52       4    2       1             7       3      70      44         117       19       0     18          37          213
 % App. Total     32.7     61.5      5.8             57.1 28.6   14.3                    2.6    59.8    37.6                 51.4       0   48.6
          PHF     .708     .800    .375      .813    .500 .250   .250          .583     .375    .547    .688        .750     .792    .000   .643        .712         .807
                                                     Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                              8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                           773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                               www.RWAengineers.com

Prince St & Grant St                                                                            File Name           : Prince St & Grant St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                                  Start Date          : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                     Page No             :2
                                                                    Groups Printed- Cars
                         Prince St                           Grant St                     Prince St                           Grant St
                        From North                          From East                    From South                          From West
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left App. Total Right Thru   Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        3      7       1         11         2      0       1         3      0    3      1          4        0       1       1          2           20
   04:15 PM        1      9       0         10         0      0       0         0      0    6      3          9        0       0       4          4           23
   04:30 PM        1     16       1         18         0      0       0         0      0    8      7         15        2       0       4          6           39
   04:45 PM        7      8       0         15         0      1       0         1      0   14      7         21        1       0       2          3           40
       Total      12     40       2         54         2      1       1         4      0   31     18         49        3       1     11          15          122

   05:00 PM       2       9      2          13        0      0      1        1      1     10      8          19        4       0      5           9           42
   05:15 PM       3       3      1           7        0      0      0        0      0      8      4          12        1       0      3           4           23
   05:30 PM       1       6      0           7        1      0      1        2      0      7      8          15        1       0      5           6           30
   05:45 PM       6       8      0          14        0      0      0        0      0     32      6          38        6       0      7          13           65
       Total     12      26      3          41        1      0      2        3      1     57     26          84       12       0     20          32          160

   06:00 PM       6       8      2          16        2      0      0        2      1     10     14          25        6       0      3           9           52
   06:15 PM       4      10      0          14        1      2      0        3      2     21     16          39        6       0      3           9           65
   06:30 PM       0       5      0           5        1      0      0        1      1      9      6          16        0       0      2           2           24
   06:45 PM       0       7      0           7        0      0      1        1      0     12      7          19        2       1      0           3           30
       Total     10      30      2          42        4      2      1        7      4     52     43          99       14       1      8          23          171

 Grand Total     34      96      7         137         7      3      4      14       5    140     87        232       29       2     39          70          453
  Apprch %     24.8    70.1    5.1                    50   21.4   28.6             2.2   60.3   37.5                41.4     2.9   55.7
    Total %     7.5    21.2    1.5        30.2       1.5    0.7    0.9      3.1    1.1   30.9   19.2       51.2      6.4     0.4    8.6        15.5
                                                     Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                              8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                           773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                               www.RWAengineers.com

Prince St & Grant St                                                                           File Name            : Prince St & Grant St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                              Site Code            : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                                 Start Date           : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                    Page No              :3
                                                                  Groups Printed- SUs - MUs
                         Prince St                           Grant St                     Prince St                           Grant St
                        From North                          From East                    From South                          From West
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left App. Total Right Thru   Left   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        0      1       0           1        0      0       0         0      0    2      0           2       0       0       0           0            3
   04:15 PM        0      0       0           0        0      0       0         0      0    0      0           0       0       0       0           0            0
   04:30 PM        0      0       0           0        0      0       0         0      0    1      0           1       0       0       0           0            1
   04:45 PM        0      0       0           0        0      0       0         0      0    0      3           3       0       0       0           0            3
       Total       0      1       0           1        0      0       0         0      0    3      3           6       0       0       0           0            7

   05:00 PM       0       0      0            0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0       0      0            0            0
   05:15 PM       0       0      0            0       0      0      0        0      0      0       1           1       0       0      0            0            1
   05:30 PM       0       0      0            0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0       0      0            0            0
   05:45 PM       0       0      0            0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0       0      0            0            0
       Total      0       0      0            0       0      0      0        0      0      0       1           1       0       0      0            0            1

   06:00 PM       0       0      0            0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0       0      0            0            0
   06:15 PM       0       0      1            1       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0       0      0            0            1
   06:30 PM       0       0      0            0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0       0      0            0            0
   06:45 PM       0       0      0            0       0      0      0        0      0      1       0           1       0       0      0            0            1
       Total      0       0      1            1       0      0      0        0      0      1       0           1       0       0      0            0            2

 Grand Total      0      1       1            2       0      0      0        0      0      4      4            8       0       0      0            0          10
  Apprch %        0     50      50                    0      0      0               0     50     50                    0       0      0
    Total %       0     10      10          20        0      0      0        0      0     40     40          80        0       0      0            0
        SU        0      1       1           2        0      0      0        0      0      4      4           8        0       0      0            0          10
      % SU        0    100     100         100        0      0      0        0      0    100    100         100        0       0      0            0         100
        MU        0      0       0           0        0      0      0        0      0      0      0           0        0       0      0            0           0
      % MU        0      0       0           0        0      0      0        0      0      0      0           0        0       0      0            0           0
                                                 Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                          8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                       773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                           www.RWAengineers.com

Prince St & Grant St                                                                            File Name     : Prince St & Grant St Peds
Downers Grove, IL                                                                               Site Code     : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                                  Start Date    : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                     Page No       :4
                                                           Groups Printed- Peds & Bikes
                            Prince St                     Grant St                    Prince St                       Grant St
                           Crossing North Leg            Crossing East Leg           Crossing South Leg              Crossing West Leg
     Start Time    Bikes      Peds App. Total    Bikes     Peds App. Total     Bikes    Peds App. Total      Bikes      Peds App. Total   Int. Total
      04:00 PM         0          1          1       0         3           3       0        1          1         0         1          1           6
      04:15 PM         0          0          0       1         1           2       0        2          2         0         0          0           4
      04:30 PM         0          5          5       1         2           3       0        2          2         0         0          0          10
      04:45 PM         0          0          0       1        10         11        0        0          0         0         1          1          12
           Total       0          6          6       3        16         19        0        5          5         0         2          2          32

      05:00 PM        0          0          0        0        4           4        0        3          3        0          2         2            9
      05:15 PM        0          0          0        0        4           4        0        0          0        0          0         0            4
      05:30 PM        0          0          0        0        1           1        0        1          1        0          0         0            2
      05:45 PM        0          0          0        0        6           6        0        0          0        0          0         0            6
          Total       0          0          0        0       15          15        0        4          4        0          2         2           21

      06:00 PM        0          0          0        1        7           8        0        0          0        0          0         0            8
      06:15 PM        0          0          0        0       10          10        1        0          1        0          0         0           11
      06:30 PM        0          0          0        1        5           6        0        0          0        0          0         0            6
      06:45 PM        0          0          0        0        2           2        0        0          0        0          0         0            2
          Total       0          0          0        2       24          26        1        0          1        0          0         0           27

    Grand Total       0          6          6        5        55         60        1        9         10        0          4         4           80
     Apprch %         0        100                 8.3      91.7                  10       90                   0        100
       Total %        0        7.5         7.5     6.2      68.8         75      1.2     11.2       12.5        0          5         5
                                                       Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                                8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                             773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                                 www.RWAengineers.com

Saratoga Ave & Sherman St                                                                       File Name       : Saratoga Ave & Sherman St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                               Site Code       : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                                  Start Date      : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                     Page No         :1
                                                                Groups Printed- Cars - SUs - MUs
                         Saratoga Ave                        Sherman St                     Saratoga Ave                             Sherman St
                          From North                          From East                      From South                               From West
 Start Time      Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left App. Total Right Thru      Left        App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   App. Total   Int. Total
     04:00 PM        0     36      0          36         4      0     2          6      1     36      0               37        0       0     0            0          79
     04:15 PM        0     33      1          34         3      0     2          5      2     23      0               25        0       0     0            0          64
     04:30 PM        0     39      0          39         5      0     2          7      0     28      0               28        0       0     0            0          74
     04:45 PM        0     40      0          40         6      0     2          8      0     36      0               36        0       0     0            0          84
         Total       0    148      1         149        18      0     8        26       3    123      0              126        0       0     0            0         301

     05:00 PM       0      32       1         33       10       0      3         13        2      23       0          25        0      0      0            0          71
     05:15 PM       0      37       1         38        5       0      1          6        1      37       0          38        0      0      0            0          82
     05:30 PM       0      42       0         42        3       0      3          6        0      26       0          26        0      0      0            0          74
     05:45 PM       0      42       1         43        4       0      8         12        1      24       0          25        0      0      0            0          80
         Total      0     153       3        156       22       0     15         37        4     110       0         114        0      0      0            0         307

     06:00 PM       0      28       2         30        4       0      2          6        0      36       0          36        0      0      0            0          72
     06:15 PM       0      27       0         27        2       0      2          4        0      32       0          32        0      0      0            0          63
     06:30 PM       0      24       2         26        2       0      1          3        0      17       0          17        0      0      0            0          46
     06:45 PM       0      26       0         26        2       0      4          6        0      20       0          20        0      0      0            0          52
         Total      0     105       4        109       10       0      9         19        0     105       0         105        0      0      0            0         233

  Grand Total       0     406       8        414        50      0    32          82        7      338      0         345        0      0      0            0         841
   Apprch %         0    98.1     1.9                   61      0    39                    2       98      0                    0      0      0
     Total %        0    48.3       1       49.2       5.9      0   3.8         9.8      0.8     40.2      0          41        0      0      0            0
        Cars        0     403       8        411        49      0    32          81        7      333      0         340        0      0      0            0         832
      % Cars        0    99.3    100        99.3        98      0   100        98.8      100     98.5      0        98.6        0      0      0            0        98.9
         SUs        0       3       0          3         1      0     0           1        0        5      0           5        0      0      0            0           9
      % SUs         0     0.7       0        0.7         2      0     0         1.2        0      1.5      0         1.4        0      0      0            0         1.1
        MUs         0       0       0          0         0      0     0           0        0        0      0           0        0      0      0            0           0
      % MUs         0       0       0          0         0      0     0           0        0        0      0           0        0      0      0            0           0




                          Saratoga Ave                     Sherman St                            Saratoga Ave                        Sherman St
                            From North                     From East                              From South                          From West
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left     App. Total   Right    Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
    04:30 PM          0      39        0       39       5    0      2              7       0       28      0          28        0       0      0           0          74
    04:45 PM          0      40        0       40       6    0      2              8       0       36      0          36        0       0      0           0          84
    05:00 PM          0      32        1       33      10    0      3             13       2       23      0          25        0       0      0           0          71
    05:15 PM          0      37        1       38       5    0      1             6        1       37      0           38       0       0      0           0          82
 Total Volume         0     148        2      150      26    0      8            34        3      124      0         127        0       0      0           0         311
 % App. Total         0    98.7      1.3             76.5    0   23.5                    2.4     97.6      0                    0       0      0
          PHF     .000     .925    .500      .938    .650 .000   .667          .654     .375     .838   .000        .836     .000    .000   .000       .000         .926
                                                     Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                              8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                           773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                               www.RWAengineers.com

Saratoga Ave & Sherman St                                                               File Name      : Saratoga Ave & Sherman St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                       Site Code      : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                          Start Date     : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                             Page No        :2
                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars
                       Saratoga Ave                        Sherman St                   Saratoga Ave                        Sherman St
                        From North                          From East                    From South                          From West
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left App. Total Right Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        0     34      0          34         4      0     2          6      1   36      0          37        0       0     0            0          77
   04:15 PM        0     33      1          34         3      0     2          5      2   23      0          25        0       0     0            0          64
   04:30 PM        0     39      0          39         5      0     2          7      0   28      0          28        0       0     0            0          74
   04:45 PM        0     40      0          40         6      0     2          8      0   33      0          33        0       0     0            0          81
       Total       0    146      1         147        18      0     8        26       3  120      0         123        0       0     0            0         296

   05:00 PM       0      32     1           33       10      0      3       13      2     23       0         25        0      0      0            0          71
   05:15 PM       0      37     1           38        5      0      1        6      1     36       0         37        0      0      0            0          81
   05:30 PM       0      42     0           42        3      0      3        6      0     26       0         26        0      0      0            0          74
   05:45 PM       0      42     1           43        4      0      8       12      1     24       0         25        0      0      0            0          80
       Total      0     153     3          156       22      0     15       37      4    109       0        113        0      0      0            0         306

   06:00 PM       0      28     2           30        4      0      2        6      0     36       0         36        0      0      0            0          72
   06:15 PM       0      27     0           27        2      0      2        4      0     32       0         32        0      0      0            0          63
   06:30 PM       0      24     2           26        2      0      1        3      0     16       0         16        0      0      0            0          45
   06:45 PM       0      25     0           25        1      0      4        5      0     20       0         20        0      0      0            0          50
       Total      0     104     4          108        9      0      9       18      0    104       0        104        0      0      0            0         230

 Grand Total      0     403      8         411       49      0      32      81      7     333      0        340        0      0      0            0         832
  Apprch %        0    98.1    1.9                 60.5      0    39.5            2.1    97.9      0                   0      0      0
    Total %       0    48.4      1        49.4      5.9      0     3.8     9.7    0.8      40      0       40.9        0      0      0            0
                                                     Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                              8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                           773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                               www.RWAengineers.com

Saratoga Ave & Sherman St                                                               File Name      : Saratoga Ave & Sherman St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                       Site Code      : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                          Start Date     : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                             Page No        :3
                                                                 Groups Printed- SUs - MUs
                       Saratoga Ave                        Sherman St                   Saratoga Ave                        Sherman St
                        From North                          From East                    From South                          From West
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left App. Total Right Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        0      2      0            2        0      0     0          0      0    0      0            0       0       0     0            0            2
   04:15 PM        0      0      0            0        0      0     0          0      0    0      0            0       0       0     0            0            0
   04:30 PM        0      0      0            0        0      0     0          0      0    0      0            0       0       0     0            0            0
   04:45 PM        0      0      0            0        0      0     0          0      0    3      0            3       0       0     0            0            3
       Total       0      2      0            2        0      0     0          0      0    3      0            3       0       0     0            0            5

   05:00 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0      0      0            0            0
   05:15 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0      0        0      0      1       0           1       0      0      0            0            1
   05:30 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0      0      0            0            0
   05:45 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0      0      0            0            0
       Total      0       0     0             0       0      0      0        0      0      1       0           1       0      0      0            0            1

   06:00 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0      0      0            0            0
   06:15 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0           0       0      0      0            0            0
   06:30 PM       0       0     0             0       0      0      0        0      0      1       0           1       0      0      0            0            1
   06:45 PM       0       1     0             1       1      0      0        1      0      0       0           0       0      0      0            0            2
       Total      0       1     0             1       1      0      0        1      0      1       0           1       0      0      0            0            3

 Grand Total      0       3     0             3       1      0      0        1      0       5      0           5       0      0      0            0            9
  Apprch %        0     100     0                   100      0      0               0     100      0                   0      0      0
    Total %       0    33.3     0         33.3     11.1      0      0     11.1      0    55.6      0       55.6        0      0      0            0
        SUs       0       3     0            3        1      0      0        1      0       5      0          5        0      0      0            0           9
     % SUs        0     100     0          100      100      0      0      100      0     100      0        100        0      0      0            0         100
       MUs        0       0     0            0        0      0      0        0      0       0      0          0        0      0      0            0           0
     % MUs        0       0     0            0        0      0      0        0      0       0      0          0        0      0      0            0           0
                                                Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                         8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                      773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                          www.RWAengineers.com

Saratoga Ave & Sherman St                                                          File Name       : Saratoga Ave & Sherman St Peds
Downers Grove, IL                                                                  Site Code       : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                     Start Date      : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                        Page No         :4
                                                           Groups Printed- Peds & Bikes
                         Saratoga Ave                   Sherman St                   Saratoga Ave                   Sherman St
                          Crossing North Leg            Crossing East Leg             Crossing South Leg            Crossing West Leg
     Start Time    Bikes     Peds App. Total    Bikes      Peds App. Total     Bikes     Peds App. Total    Bikes      Peds App. Total   Int. Total
      04:00 PM         0         1          1       0         0           0        0         1          1       0         1          1           3
      04:15 PM         0         0          0       0         0           0        0         0          0       0         0          0           0
      04:30 PM         0         0          0       0         1           1        0         1          1       1         0          1           3
      04:45 PM         0         0          0       1         0           1        0         1          1       0         1          1           3
           Total       0         1          1       1         1           2        0         3          3       1         2          3           9

      05:00 PM         0        0          0        0         0           0        0        1          1       0          0         0            1
      05:15 PM         0        0          0        0         0           0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
      05:30 PM         0        0          0        0         0           0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
      05:45 PM         0        0          0        0         0           0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
          Total        0        0          0        0         0           0        0        1          1       0          0         0            1

      06:00 PM         0        0          0        0         0           0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
      06:15 PM         0        0          0        0         0           0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
      06:30 PM         0        0          0        0         0           0        0        0          0       0          0         0            0
      06:45 PM         0        0          0        0         1           1        0        0          0       0          0         0            1
          Total        0        0          0        0         1           1        0        0          0       0          0         0            1

    Grand Total        0        1          1        1          2          3        0        4          4        1         2         3           11
     Apprch %          0      100                33.3       66.7                   0      100                33.3      66.7
       Total %         0      9.1         9.1     9.1       18.2       27.3        0     36.4       36.4      9.1      18.2       27.3
                                                       Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                                8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                             773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                                 www.RWAengineers.com

Prince St & Sherman St                                                                            File Name           : Prince St & Sherman St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                                 Site Code           : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                                    Start Date          : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                       Page No             :1
                                                                Groups Printed- Cars - SUs - MUs
                           Prince St                         Sherman St                       Prince St                              Sherman St
                          From North                          From East                      From South                               From West
 Start Time      Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left App. Total Right Thru      Left        App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   App. Total   Int. Total
     04:00 PM        5      6       0         11         0      0     0          0      0      8       1               9        0       0     1            1          21
     04:15 PM        5      9       0         14         0      0     0          0      0      7       0               7        0       0     3            3          24
     04:30 PM        2     17       0         19         0      0     0          0      0      9       3              12        3       0     0            3          34
     04:45 PM        3     17       0         20         0      0     0          0      0     10       2              12        0       0     0            0          32
         Total      15     49       0         64         0      0     0          0      0     34       6              40        3       0     4            7         111

     05:00 PM      10      10       0         20        0       0      0           0       0       9       6          15        2      0      0            2          37
     05:15 PM       2       5       0          7        0       0      0           0       0      10       1          11        1      0      0            1          19
     05:30 PM       6       6       0         12        0       0      0           0       0       5       0           5        0      0      0            0          17
     05:45 PM       7      12       0         19        0       0      0           0       0      10       7          17        0      0      0            0          36
         Total     25      33       0         58        0       0      0           0       0      34      14          48        3      0      0            3         109

     06:00 PM       4      10       0         14        0       0      0           0       0      13       3          16        1      0      1            2          32
     06:15 PM       0      11       0         11        0       0      0           0       0      15       2          17        0      0      2            2          30
     06:30 PM       2       5       0          7        0       0      0           0       0       6       1           7        0      0      0            0          14
     06:45 PM       2       6       0          8        0       0      0           0       0       6       4          10        0      0      2            2          20
         Total      8      32       0         40        0       0      0           0       0      40      10          50        1      0      5            6          96

  Grand Total      48     114       0        162        0       0      0           0       0     108      30         138        7      0       9         16          316
   Apprch %      29.6    70.4       0                   0       0      0                   0    78.3    21.7                 43.8      0    56.2
     Total %     15.2    36.1       0       51.3        0       0      0           0       0    34.2     9.5        43.7      2.2      0     2.8        5.1
        Cars       48     112       0        160        0       0      0           0       0     106      29         135        7      0       9         16          311
      % Cars      100    98.2       0       98.8        0       0      0           0       0    98.1    96.7        97.8      100      0     100        100         98.4
         SUs        0       2       0          2        0       0      0           0       0       2       1           3        0      0       0          0            5
      % SUs         0     1.8       0        1.2        0       0      0           0       0     1.9     3.3         2.2        0      0       0          0          1.6
        MUs         0       0       0          0        0       0      0           0       0       0       0           0        0      0       0          0            0
      % MUs         0       0       0          0        0       0      0           0       0       0       0           0        0      0       0          0            0




                             Prince St                     Sherman St                             Prince St                          Sherman St
                            From North                     From East                             From South                           From West
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left     App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
    04:15 PM          5       9        0       14       0    0      0              0       0       7       0           7        0       0     3            3          24
    04:30 PM          2      17        0       19       0    0      0              0       0       9       3          12        3       0      0           3          34
    04:45 PM          3      17        0       20       0    0      0              0       0      10       2          12        0       0      0           0          32
    05:00 PM        10       10        0       20       0    0      0              0       0       9       6           15       2       0      0           2          37
 Total Volume       20       53        0       73       0    0      0              0       0      35      11          46        5       0      3           8         127
 % App. Total     27.4     72.6        0                0    0      0                      0    76.1    23.9                 62.5       0   37.5
          PHF     .500     .779    .000      .913    .000 .000   .000          .000     .000    .875    .458        .767     .417    .000   .250       .667         .858
                                                     Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                              8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                           773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                               www.RWAengineers.com

Prince St & Sherman St                                                                     File Name         : Prince St & Sherman St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                          Site Code         : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                             Start Date        : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                Page No           :2
                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars
                         Prince St                         Sherman St                    Prince St                          Sherman St
                        From North                          From East                   From South                           From West
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left App. Total Right Thru   Left    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        5      5       0         10         0      0     0          0      0    6      1           7        0       0     1            1          18
   04:15 PM        5      9       0         14         0      0     0          0      0    7      0           7        0       0     3            3          24
   04:30 PM        2     17       0         19         0      0     0          0      0    9      3          12        3       0     0            3          34
   04:45 PM        3     17       0         20         0      0     0          0      0   10      2          12        0       0     0            0          32
       Total      15     48       0         63         0      0     0          0      0   32      6          38        3       0     4            7         108

   05:00 PM      10      10      0          20        0      0      0        0      0      9      6          15        2      0      0            2          37
   05:15 PM       2       5      0           7        0      0      0        0      0     10      1          11        1      0      0            1          19
   05:30 PM       6       6      0          12        0      0      0        0      0      5      0           5        0      0      0            0          17
   05:45 PM       7      12      0          19        0      0      0        0      0     10      7          17        0      0      0            0          36
       Total     25      33      0          58        0      0      0        0      0     34     14          48        3      0      0            3         109

   06:00 PM       4      10      0          14        0      0      0        0      0     13       3         16        1      0      1            2          32
   06:15 PM       0      10      0          10        0      0      0        0      0     15       2         17        0      0      2            2          29
   06:30 PM       2       5      0           7        0      0      0        0      0      6       1          7        0      0      0            0          14
   06:45 PM       2       6      0           8        0      0      0        0      0      6       3          9        0      0      2            2          19
       Total      8      31      0          39        0      0      0        0      0     40       9         49        1      0      5            6          94

 Grand Total     48    112       0         160        0      0      0        0      0    106      29        135        7      0       9         16          311
  Apprch %       30     70       0                    0      0      0               0   78.5    21.5                43.8      0    56.2
    Total %    15.4     36       0        51.4        0      0      0        0      0   34.1     9.3       43.4      2.3      0     2.9         5.1
                                                     Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                              8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                           773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                               www.RWAengineers.com

Prince St & Sherman St                                                                     File Name          : Prince St & Sherman St 4-7PM
Downers Grove, IL                                                                          Site Code          : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                             Start Date         : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                                Page No            :3
                                                                 Groups Printed- SUs - MUs
                         Prince St                         Sherman St                      Prince St                         Sherman St
                        From North                          From East                    From South                           From West
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left App. Total Right Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM        0      1       0           1        0      0     0          0      0     2       0           2       0       0     0            0            3
   04:15 PM        0      0       0           0        0      0     0          0      0     0       0           0       0       0     0            0            0
   04:30 PM        0      0       0           0        0      0     0          0      0     0       0           0       0       0     0            0            0
   04:45 PM        0      0       0           0        0      0     0          0      0     0       0           0       0       0     0            0            0
       Total       0      1       0           1        0      0     0          0      0     2       0           2       0       0     0            0            3

   05:00 PM       0       0      0            0       0       0      0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0            0            0
   05:15 PM       0       0      0            0       0       0      0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0            0            0
   05:30 PM       0       0      0            0       0       0      0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0            0            0
   05:45 PM       0       0      0            0       0       0      0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0            0            0
       Total      0       0      0            0       0       0      0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0            0            0

   06:00 PM       0       0      0            0       0       0      0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0            0            0
   06:15 PM       0       1      0            1       0       0      0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0            0            1
   06:30 PM       0       0      0            0       0       0      0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0            0            0
   06:45 PM       0       0      0            0       0       0      0        0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0            0            1
       Total      0       1      0            1       0       0      0        0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0            0            2

 Grand Total      0      2       0            2       0       0      0        0      0      2      1            3       0      0      0            0            5
  Apprch %        0    100       0                    0       0      0               0   66.7   33.3                    0      0      0
    Total %       0     40       0          40        0       0      0        0      0     40     20          60        0      0      0            0
        SUs       0      2       0           2        0       0      0        0      0      2      1           3        0      0      0            0           5
     % SUs        0    100       0         100        0       0      0        0      0    100    100         100        0      0      0            0         100
       MUs        0      0       0           0        0       0      0        0      0      0      0           0        0      0      0            0           0
     % MUs        0      0       0           0        0       0      0        0      0      0      0           0        0      0      0            0           0
                                                 Regina Webster & Associates, Inc.
                                          8619 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Suite 602, Chicago, Illinois 60631
                                                       773-283-2600 Fax: 773-283-2602
                                                           www.RWAengineers.com

Prince St & Sherman St                                                                   File Name          : Prince St & Sherman St Peds
Downers Grove, IL                                                                        Site Code          : 00000000
4:00 - 7:00 PM                                                                           Start Date         : 11/29/2011
Cloudy, Dry                                                                              Page No            :4
                                                            Groups Printed- Peds & Bikes
                            Prince St                    Sherman St                    Prince St                      Sherman St
                           Crossing North Leg            Crossing East Leg            Crossing South Leg              Crossing West Leg
     Start Time    Bikes      Peds App. Total    Bikes      Peds App. Total     Bikes    Peds App. Total      Bikes      Peds App. Total   Int. Total
      04:00 PM         0          0          0       0         4           4        0        0          0         0         0          0           4
      04:15 PM         0          0          0       0         6           6        0        0          0         0         0          0           6
      04:30 PM         0          0          0       0         8           8        0        1          1         0         1          1          10
      04:45 PM         0          0          0       0         1           1        0        0          0         0         0          0           1
           Total       0          0          0       0        19          19        0        1          1         0         1          1          21

      05:00 PM        0          0          0        0         3          3        0        0          0         0          0         0            3
      05:15 PM        0          0          0        0         0          0        0        0          0         0          0         0            0
      05:30 PM        0          0          0        0         1          1        0        0          0         0          0         0            1
      05:45 PM        0          0          0        0         0          0        0        0          0         0          0         0            0
          Total       0          0          0        0         4          4        0        0          0         0          0         0            4

      06:00 PM        0          0          0        0         2          2        0        0          0         0          0         0            2
      06:15 PM        0          0          0        0         0          0        0        0          0         0          0         0            0
      06:30 PM        0          0          0        0         0          0        0        0          0         0          0         0            0
      06:45 PM        0          0          0        0         0          0        0        1          1         0          1         1            2
          Total       0          0          0        0         2          2        0        1          1         0          1         1            4

    Grand Total       0          0          0        0        25         25        0        2          2         0          2         2           29
     Apprch %         0          0                   0       100                   0      100                    0        100
       Total %        0          0          0        0      86.2        86.2       0      6.9         6.9        0        6.9        6.9
