                  BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                       FOR MUL TNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

                                  ORDINANCE NO. 1173


Amending County Land Use Code, Plans and Maps to Adopt Portland's Recent Code Revision
related to the Northwest District Plan and Declaring an Emergency

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

a.    The Board of County Commissioners (Board) adopted Resolution A in 1983 which
      directed the County services towards rural services rather than urban.

b.    In 1996, Metro adopted the Functional Plan for the region, mandating that jurisdictions
      comply with the goals and policies adopted by the Metro Council.

c.    In 1998, the County and the City of Portland (City) amended the Urban Planning Area
      Agreement to include an agreement that the City would provide planning services to "
      achieve compliance with the Functional Plan for those areas outside the City limits, but
      within the Urban Growth Boundary and Portland's Urban Services Boundary.

d.    It is impracticable to have the County Planning Commission conduct hearings and make
      recommendations on land use legislative actions pursuant to MCC 37.0710, within
      unincorporated areas inside the Urban Growth Boundary for which the City provides
      urban planning and permitting services. The Board intends to exempt these areas from
      the requirements of MCC 37.0710, and will instead consider the recommendations of the
      Portland Planning Commission and City Council when legislative matters for these areas
      are brought before the Board for action as required by intergovernmental agreement
      (County Contract #4600002792) (IGA).

e.    On September 9, 2010, the Board amended County land use codes, plans and maps to
      adopt the City's land use codes, plans and map amendments in compliance with Metro's
      Functional Plan by Ordinance "1170.

f.    Since the adoption of Ordinance 1170, the City's Planning Commission recommended
      land use code, plan and map amendments to the City Council through duly noticed
      public hearings.

g.    The City notified affected County property owners as required by the IGA.

h.    The City Council adopted the land use code, plan and map amendments set out in
      Section 1 below and attached as Exhibits 1 and 9. The IGA requires that the County
      adopt these amendments for the City planning and zoning administration within the
      affected areas.




Page 1 of 3 - Ordinance Amending Land Use Code, Plans and Maps
. Multnomah     County Ordains as follows:

       Section 1. The County Comprehensive Framework Plan, community plans, rural
area plans, sectional zoning maps and land use code chapters are amended to include the City
land use code, plan and map amendments, attached as Exhibits 1 and 9, effective on the same
date as the respective Portland ordinance:


 Exhibit                                                                              .
   No.        Description                                                              Date

    1         Ordinance to amend then Northwest District Plan and official zoning
              and comprehensive plan maps in a portion of Northwest Portland.
              (PDX Ord. #183915)
    2         Exhibit A - Comprehensive Plan and Zone Map
    3         Exhibit B - Northwest District Plan Remand Transportation Model         5/27/10
              Technical Report
    4         Exhibit C1 - Traffic Analysis for Title 4                               4/15/10
    5         Exhibit C2 - Supplement for Traffic Analysis for Title 4                4/19/10
    6         Exhibit D - Correspondence from ODOT                                    4/28/10
    7         Exhibit E - Areas of Proposed Changes to Zoning and                     5/21/10
              Comprehensive Plan Maps
    8         Exhibit F1 - Ordinance 183269 Readopt affirmed and unchallenged        10/21/09
              portions of the Northwest District Plan; Repeal Ordinance 177920
    9         Exhibit F2 - Northwest District Plan Exhibit C: Findings                9/2003

         Section 2. In accordance with ORS 215.427(3), the changes resulting from Section 1
of this ordinance shall not apply to any decision on an application that is submitted before the'
applicable effective date of this ordinance and that is made complete prior to the applicable
effective date of this ordinance or within 180 days of the initial submission of the application.

         Section 3. In accordance with ORS 92.040(2), for any subdivisions for which the
initial application is submitted before the applicable effective date of this ordinance, the
subdivision application and any subsequent application for construction shall be governed by
the County's land use regulations in effect as of the date the subdivision application is first
submitted.

        Section 4. Any future amendments to the legislative matters listed in Section 1
above, are exempt from the requirements of MCC 37.0710.           The Board acknowledges,
authorizes and agrees that the Portland Planning Commission will act instead of the Multnomah
Planning Commission in the subject unincorporated areas using the City's own procedures, to
include notice to and participation by County citizens.      The Board will consider the
recommendations of the Portland Planning Commission when legislative matters for County
unincorporated areas are before the Board for action.




Page 2 of 3 - Ordinance Amending Land Use Code, Plans and Maps
         Section 5.    An emergency is declared in that it is necessary for the health, safety and
general welfare of the people of Multnomah County for this ordinance to take effect concurrent
with the City code, plan and map amendments. Under section 5.50 of the Charter of Multnomah
County, this ordinance will take effect in accordance with Section 1.


         FIRST READING AND ADOPTION:            __   -.!N~0:!.!v~e~m~be~r_1~8~20~1~0:...-      _

                                                BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS,
                                                FOR MUL TNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON




REVIEWED:
HENRY H LAZENBY JR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MUL TN  A~lNTY,     OREGON


By        ~~--/~     ~~                              _
     Jed To   kins, Assistant County Attorney

SUBMITTED BY: M. Cecilia Johnson, Director, Department of Community Services

                                  EXHIBIT LIST FOR ORDINANCE


     1. Ordinance to amend then Northwest District Plan and official zoning and comprehensive
        plan maps in a portion of Northwest Portland. (PDX Ord. #183915).
     2. Exhibit A - Comprehensive Plan and Zone Map
     3. Exhibit B - Northwest District Plan Remand Transportation Model Technical Report
     4. Exhibit C1 - Traffic Analysis for Title 4
     5. Exhibit C2 - Supplement for Traffic Analysis for Title 4
     6. Exhibit D - Correspondence from ODOT
     7. Exhibit E - Areas of Proposed Changes to Zoning and Comprehensive Plan Maps
     8. Exhibit F1 - Ordinance 183269 Readopt affirmed and unchallenged portions of the
        Northwest District Plan; Repeal Ordinance 177920
     9. Exhibit F2 - Northwest District Plan Exhibit C: Findings


Prior to adoption, this information is available electronically or for viewing at the Multnomah
County Board of Commissioners and Agenda website
(www.co.multnomah.or.us/cc/WeeklyAgendaPacketl).To obtain the adopted ordinance and exhibits
electronically, please contact the Board Clerk at 503-988-5274. These documents may also be
purchased on CD-Rom from the Land Use and Transportation Program. Contact the Planning
Program at 503-988-3043 for further information.


Page 3 of 3 - Ordinance Amending Land Use Code, Plans and Maps
                                  SUBSTTfl}rü
 ORDINANCE               No.      $"   e   . i} I   ffi


 Amend Northwest District Plan and Offìcial Zoning and Comprehensive Plan maps in portion of Northwest
 Portland (Ordinance).

 The City of Portland ordains:

 Section 1. The Council finds:

SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND

 l. In 2003 and2004, City Council   adopted the Northwest District Plan (NWDP) and a number of
     implementing and other actions. Þ-our ordinances and a resolution were used for this adoption:
     Ordinances Nos. 177920,177921,177993, and 178020, and Resolution No. 36171

2.   The four ordinances and the resolution were appealed to the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA).

     After an initial decision by LUBA, an appeal to the Oregon Court of Appeals, and a remand to LUBA,
     LUBA remanded Ordinance No. 177920 to tlie City of Portland in 2005 and affirmed the other three
     ordinances and the resolution.

4.   Ordinance No. 177920 had incorporated the NWDP into the City's Comprehensive Plan, amended the
     Zoning Code, and amended the Official ZoningMap and Comprehensive Plan Map for a number of
     properties.

5.   Init'sremandofOrdinanceNo. 179220,LUBAfoundthattheCityhadnotmeetitsevidentiaryburden
     under Statewide Plamring Goal12, Transportation, and Oregon Adrninistrative Rules 660-0012-0060,
     Transportation Planning, to show that Comprehensive Plan Map redesignations and rezones north of NW
     Pettygrove and Comprehensive Plan Map redesignations north of NW Vaughn would not have significant
     adverse traffic irnpacts on NW Vaughn Street or the NW Vaughn and23'd intersection. In all other
     respects, LUBA uplield Ordinance No, 179220, the other three ordinances and the resolution.

6.   In an unrelated 2009 decision on a quasi-judicial case involving property within the NWDP area, LUBA
     indicated that the effect of the 2005 remand of Ordinance No. 179220 was to invalidate the ordinance, and
     that the legulations and irnplernenting actions adopted by that ordinance were no longer effective. This
     was affirmed by the Oregon Court of Appeals.

7.   In response to the 2005 remand and the 2009 LUBA and Court of Appeals opinions, the City Council
     began readopting actions and elernents that had been part of the remanded ordinance (Ordinance No.
     179220). On October 27 2009, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 183269, which repealed
     Ordinance No. 179220 and readopted the bulk of the NWDP that was unchallenged and/or sustained on
     appeal by LUBA.

8.   This ordinance readopts the amendments to the Zoning and Comprehensive Plan maps that were affected
     by LUBA's remand of Ordinance No. 179220. It ùicludes supplemental findings that address the
     deficiencies noted in the retnand order. It also includes supplemental findings to address Metro's Title 4
     and State Planning Goal 9, both of which have been arnended since Ordinance No. 177920 was adopted.

                                                      Page   I of 10
                                                                                                        gffiå*r.}3ffi

TIIIS ORDINANCE

9   .   On Novemb er 7 , 2007 , staff rnet witli tlie Transportation Committee of the Northwest District Association
        (NWDA) to discuss the NW Plan District Remand project (the Remand).

1   0. On November 13, 2007 , staff rnet with the Northwest Industrial Neighborhood Association to discuss the
        Rernand.

11. On October 1, 2008, staff met with the Transportation Cornmittee of the NWDA to discuss the latest
    transpofiation infonnation related to the Rernand.

12. On July 16, 2009, staff met with the Plaruring Committee of tlie NWDA to discuss the status of the NW
    District Plan and the proposal to re-adopt the portions of the plan not related to the remanded items.

13. On October 29,2009, staff met with representatives frorn Neighbors West/Ìrlorthwest and the NWDA to
   discuss the continuing public participation process for the Remand. On April 8, 2010, staff rnet with the
   Leadership Committee of the NWDA to discuss the amendments proposed by this ordinance.

14. On May 5, 2010, staff rnet with the Transportation Committee of the NWDA to discuss the amendments
    proposed by this ordinance.

1   5. On May 1 3 and 77 , 2010, staff met with the Land Use Cornrnittee of the NWDA and interested property
       owners to discuss the amendments proposed by this ordinance.

16. On April21, 2010, notice of the proposed action was mailed to the Department of Land Conservation and
    Development in cornpliance with the post-acknowledgement review process required by OAR 660-18-020.
    They received the notice on April 23 , 2010.

l7 . On May      1 I , 20 1 0, notice was mailed to more than I ,200 people and organizations, including all
        neighborhood associations and coalitions and business associations in the City of Portland, as well as
        property owners and those within 400 feet of the areas to be rezoned, other interested persons, to notify
        them of an Open House and the City Council Hearing.

18. On }y'ray 14,2010, notice of the proposal as required by ORS 227.186 was sent to all 88 property owrers
    potentially affected by proposed changes to the Zoning and Cornprehensive Plan Maps.

19. On May 19, 2010, staff held an open house on this proposal at Good Samaritan l{ospital in Norlhwest
    Portland. Twenty-five people attended the open house.

20. During April and May, staff also communicated via email, meetings, and phone with various interested
    people, including property owners.

21. Tliis ordinance and the attachments-including Exhibit B, Northwest District Plan Remand Transportation
    Model Technical Report and Exhibit C, Traffic Analysis for Title 4-were published on May 28, 2010.
    They were rnade available to the public, posted on the Bureau's website, and rnailed to those who requested
    copies. Earlier versions of Exhibits B and C had been available to the public for several weeks before May
    28.

22. On June I 0, 20 10, City Council held a hearing on this proposal. Staff fi'orn the Bureau of Planning and
    Sustainability presented the proposal, and public testimony was received.

23. On June 17, 2010, City Council voted to adopt the proposal by adopting this ordinance.


                                                      Page 2   of   10
                                                                                                    'iJ
                                                                                                      {,*t nx ¡t
                                                                                                    { #:jiJ         ;5
                                                                                                                   .-,




SUPPLEMENTAL FINDINGS
24. The findings below are in addition to the findings in Ordinance No. 183269. Ordinance No. 183269 and
    the findings for that ordinance are attached as Exhibits F-l and F-2 and incorporated by reference as part
    of this ordinance.

25. State Goal9, Economic Development. In 2005, the administrative rule implernenting this goal was
    amended to foster conservation of prime industrial land. Because of the 2005 changes, the new findings
    below are added. To redesigrate and rezone more than 2 acres of industrial land, the City must
    demonstrate that the proposed map amendments are consistent with the Cit]¡'s most recent econornic
    opportunities anal]¡sis and the ¡rarts of the Citv's acknowledged Comprehensive Plan which address the
    requirements of this division. The criteria are underlined.

   a.   The proposed map arnendments are consistent with the City's most recent economic opportunities
        analysis. The most recent adopted economic opportunities analysis is in the forrn of industrial and
        commercial land inventories adopted as background documentation for the City's Comprehensive Plan
        Goal 5, Economic Development. According to a 1987 vacant land analysis cited in the City's adopted
        report responding to its first periodic review order, the City has "a suff-rcient inventory of vacant
        buildable commercial and industrial land" (pg. 135, City of Portland, Oregon Comprehensive Plan
        Periodic Review: Proposed Local Review Order, March 1989; Resolution No. 34523). The 1987
        report identifies that the City has 2,290.56 acres of vacant buildable industrial land available and
        deems that figure sufficient. The report also identifies another 3,441 .36 acres of industrial land within
         ahazard area or the floodplain and states that much of the vacant industrial land within the floodplain
        can be developed. LDCD acknowledged the determination that the City has sufficient commercial and
        industrial land in the City's first periodic review.

        Given that in 1987 the City had a suffrcient supply of vacant buildable industrial land and had a
        substantial surplus beyond that which was deemed sufficient, the change to the comprehensive plan
        map designation for the 53.4 industrial acres in Northwest Portland is not significant because it is
        offset by the portion of the 3 ,441 acres of partially buildable industrial land that can be developed.
        Therefore, the amendment of the comprehensive plan map designation from Industrial Sanctuary to
        Mixed Employnent (for 16.9 acres) and from Industrial Sanctuary to Central Employment (for 36.5
        acres) is consistent with the City's most recent adopted economic opportunities analysis.

        Portland's Comprehensive Plan is cunently in periodic review. As part of that, a draft economic
        opportunities analysis (draft EOA) was prepared in 2009, but has not yet been adopted. The draft EOA
        found that the City curently has about 600 acres of vacant industrial land that has no identified
        constraints. The forecast demand for industrial developrnent between 2010 and 2015 is for about 250
        acres, indicating that we have an adequate supply for the next five years. Therefore, the proposed
        amendments are consistent with the draft EOA.

        The regulatory analysis and policy responses required by the Goal 9 rule to meet ernploynent land
        needs between now and 2035 will be undertaken in the periodic review process on a citywide basis; we
        expect to cornplete this work by 2015. Options for addressing industrial and ernplo¡rment land supply
        shortf,alls between now and 2035 are explored in the draft EOA..

   b.   The amendment is also consistent with the parts of the comprehensive plan that address the
        requirements of Goal 9. The three comprehensive plan goals that address the requirements of Goal 9
        are Goals 5, Economic Developrnent,2.ll, Cornmercial Centers , and2.l4, hrdustrial Sanctuaries.
        The findings for these three comprehensive plan goals in Ordinance No. 183269 address why the
        Nofthwest Distlict Plan is consistent with the requirement of Statewide Planning Goal 9 and are
        incorporated here by reference. The ordinance and findings are attached as Exhibits F-l and F-2.

                                                  Page 3   of   10
                                                                                                            i"S:li+'a
26. State Goal 12, Transportation. Goal 12 calls for provision of a safe, convenient and economic
    transportation system. In its remand of Ordinance No. 177920, LUBA found tliat this goal was not
    adequately supported by the findings originally adopted with tlie Northwest District Plan in 2003. In
    pafticular, the findings did not provide adequate data to support the conclusions that the NWDP would not
    significantly affect the transportation facilities at NW Vaughn and at the intersection of NW 23'd; and NW
    Vaughn. Since the remand, the City has compiled additional data and performed in-depth analysis, and
    concludes that the transportation facilities will not be significantly affected for the reasons stated below.
    Tlie criteria ale underlined.

    a.   Where an amendment to a functional plan. an acknowledged comprehensive plan. or a land use
         regulation would sisniflcantly affect an existing or planned transportation facility. the local
         govemment shall put in place measures . . . to assure that allowed land uses are consistent with the
         identified function. capacity. and performance standards . . . of the facilit)¡. A plan or land use
         regulation amendnent significantly affects a transportation facility if it would:
         (1)   Change the functional classification of an existing or planned transporlation facilitv (exclusive   of
               correction of map errors in an adopted plan):
               The proposed amendments to the Zoning and Cornprehensive Plan maps will not change the
               functional classification of an existing or planned transportation facility. NW Vaughn St., the
               street identified in the remand fi'om LUBA, is currently classified as a Neighborhood Collector and
               the proposed comprehensive plan and zone changes do not propose to change this classification.
               The Transportation Element of the City's Comprehensive Plan describes that neighborhood
               collectors "are intended to serve as distributors of traffic from Majol City Traffic Streets or District
               Collectors to Local Service Streets and to serve trips that both start and end within areas bounded
               by Major City Traffic Streets and District Collectors."
         (2) Chanqe standards implementing       a functio

               The proposed amendments to the Zoning and Comprehensive Plan maps do not change standards
               implementing a functional classification system.
         (3) As measured     at the end of the planning period identif,ted in the adopted transportation s)¡stem plan:

               (a) Allow land  uses or levels of development that would result in types or levels of travel or
                   access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of an existing or planned
                   transpofiation facility:
            (b)    Reduce the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility below the minimum
                   acceptable performance standard identified in the TSP or comprehensive plau or

            (c)    Worsen the performance of an existing or planned transportation facilit)¡ that is otherwise
                   projected to perforrn below the minirnurn acceptable perfonnance standard identified in the
                   TSP or comprehensive plan.


         The Nortltwest Distríct Plan Remand Transportation Model Tecltnical Report (Exhibit B) deterrnined
         that the zone changes proposed will have no significant effect on the performance of NW Vaughn St.
         in regards to its street classification. In 2030, the percentage of trips starting and ending in the area
         bounded by Major City streets and District Collectors (NW i6th, W. Buniside, NW Yeon) remains the
         sarne as today. In addition, 85 percent of tlie trips today and in 2030 have a local origin or destination.
          Therefore, these map amendments will not generate increased levels of travel inconsistent with the
         functional classification of any city street within the meaning of OAR 660-012-0060 (3) (a). See
         Exliibit B Northwest District Plan Remand Transportation Model Technical Report.



                                                     Page 4   of   10
                                                                                                    3"ffi,ïf¡u1$
     l'he intersection of NW 23rd Ave. and NW Vauglin St. is an existing city transportation facility. It is
     currently functioning at a level of service "D." Level of service "E ' is an acceptable level of service
     that meets the standard described in the City's TSP within the rneaning of OAR 660-012-0060 (3Xb).
     The analysis found that the map amendments will worsen the performance of the intersection from "D"
     to '0F." (See ExhibitB, Northwest District Plsn Retnand Transportation Model Technical Report.)
     Therefore, mitigation is proposed for this impact, as described below. The mitigation will increase the
     level of service to the acceptable level; level "E."

     The map amendtnents will not worsen the perfonnance of any state facility not already performing to
     standard within the rneaning of OAR 660-012-0060 (3) (c). The analysis done in 2002 as part of the
     NW District Plan projected liigher household and employrnent numbers for 2030 than are projected by
     the current analysis in Exhibit B, Northwest District Plan Remand Transportation Model Technical
     Report. In2002, the Oregon Departrnent of Transportation (ODOT) found that the liigher numbers
     would have no significant effect on the state facility, and they find tliat the lower numbers also will
     lrave no significant   effect.   See email from ODOT dated     April 28,2010 (Exhibit D).

b.   Where a local government determines that there would be a significant effect. the effect rnust be
     rnitigated at least to the point where a finding of "no sinlificant affct" can be made, The mitigation
     must be accomplished through one or more of the followins:
     (1) Adopting measures that demonstrate allowed land uses are consistent with        the planned lunction.
         capacit)¡. and perforrnance standards of the transpoftation facility:

     (2) Amending     the TSP or comprehensive plan to provide transportation      facilitiesrovernents or
         services adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with the requirements of Division
         660-012-0060: such amendments must include a funding plan or mechanism consistent with
         section 660-012-0060 (4) or include an amendrnent to the transportation finance plan so that the
         facility" improvernent. or service will be provided by the end of the plannine periodl or
     (3) Altering land use designations. densities. or desiqn requirements to reduce demand for automobile
         travel and meet travel needs through other modes.


     Based on the analysis above, there is only one facility that is "significant affected" within the rneaning
     of OAR 660-012-0060: unacceptable future service levels at the intersection of NW 23rd Ave. and
     NW Vaughn St. This single significant effect will be rnitigated by tlie project identifìed in Attachment
     C of Exhibit B, the Northwest District Plan Remand Transportation Model Technical Report. The
     mitigation project entails re-configuring the I-405 ofÊramp to improve the operation and performance
     of the facility in the future and bring the performance standard into acceptable levels and compliance
     with OAR 660-00 I 2-0060(2).

     Tlre rnitigation project proposed in Attachment C of the Northwest District Plan Remand
     Transportation Model Technical will be added, as a project element, to a larger project identified in
     the City's TSP as Project #60027--23'dlVaughn, NW: hrtersection Improvements. Project #60027 is
     primarily a placeholder for a project with a scope and specific irnprovements to be deterrnined by a
     later study, and is described as: "Itlprove intersection to reduce congestion, improve pedestrian access,
     and provide a transition into the Northwest District." It has a cost estimate of $540,000 with a
     projected time frame of 6-10 yeals. The project element in Attachnent C of the Northwest District
     Plan Remand Transportation Model Tecltnical Report will be identified as a priority component of
     Project #60027 in keeping with the directives of this ordinance. In addition, the timeframe identified
     for the project will be revised fi'om Years 6-10 to Years 1-5, also in keeping with the directives of tliis
     orditrance. The City TSP was adopted in 2002, and has been updated twice, most recently in 2007 .



                                                 Page 5   of   10
                                                                                                            d"&içtulh

          Project #60027 was added to the TSP after the Norlhwest District Plan was originally adopted in 2003.
          It is intended to address not just congestion at the ramps, but pedestrian improvements and additional
          transitions into the neighborhood. The proposed mitigation project in Attachment C of the Nortltwest
          District Plan Remand Transportation Model Technical Report will rnitigate traffic irnpacts at the
          ramps and requires only the re-configuration of the lanes and signalization at the ramps.

          Tlie rnitigation project identified in Attachment C of the Northwest District Plan Remand
          Transportation Model Technical Report is reasonably likely to be funded during the planning period
          for several reasons.

          First, this ordinance directs the Bureau of Transportation to amend project #60027's description to
          make the rnitigation project a priority element and to change the tirne frame from 6-10 years to 1-5
          years. The TSP was adopted in 2002 with a financial plan that includes funding for projects.

          Second, the mitigation project proposed in Attachment C        will likely   be funded, at least in part, by the
          Northwest Transportation Fund. The Northwest Transportation Fund collects money from certain
          developrnent projects in the district to fund transpor-tation improvements. The estimated cost of the
          project proposed fui Attachment C is $200,000; the fund curuently holds $66,000.

          Third, the planning horizon for the traffic analysis is 2030. The analysis indicates that depending on
          the rate of developrnent in the area, the intersection could potentially have a lower level of service in
          2015 (based on a calculation of vehicles and capacity) or 2029 (based on LOS). Therefore, this
          ordinance directs the Bureau of Transportation to add a study to the TSP Refinements Plan and Studies
          chapter that assesses the level of service of the intersection at five-year intervals beginning in 201 5.
          The ordinance furlher directs that if the level of service drops below "8," then the Bureau of
          Transportation is directed to add Project #60027, which will include the mitigation project as a priority
          element, to the Capital Improvement Plan (CIP). Level of service 'oE" is an acceptable level of service
          that meets the standard described in the City's TSP witliin the meaning of OAR 660-012-0060 (3Xb).
          The CIP is the City's 5-year spending plan for capital improvements and is a cornponent of the City
          budget. Projects in the CIP have an identified source of funds.

          Because this mitigation  will cause the affected intersection to fuirction within the requirements of the
          City TSP, all applicable requirements of the state transportation planning rule have been met.

27   . Metro Title 4, Retail in Employment and Industrial Areas. In     2007 , Metro amended Title 4 to add
      criteria that apply to changes in zoning and Cornprehensive Map designations. Because of the 2007
      changes, the new findings below are added. The criteria are underlined.

      Tlris ordinance makes changes to the Comprehensive Plan Map in three areas and to the OfficialZoning
      Map iri two of those areas. The three areas are shown in Exhibit E, Areas of Proposed Changes to Zoning
      and Comprehensive PIan Maps.

      a   Area 1 (north of Vaughn): 16.9 acres curently zoned IGl witli a Comprehensive Plan designation                of
          IS (Industrial Sanctuary) changes to the IGl zone with a Comprehensive Plan designation of ME
          (Mixed Ernployment).
      a    Area2 (north of Pettygrove): 36.5 acl'es curently zoned IG1 witli a Comprehensive Plan designation
          of IS (Industrial Sanctuary) changes to the EXd zone with a Conprehensive Plan designation of EX
          (Central Ernployrnent).
      o   Area 3 (Between Thunnan, Vaughn, and 23rd): 1.7 acres from CS zoning with a UC (Urban
          Cotnmercial) Cornprehensive Plan designation changes to the EXd zone with a Comprehensive Plan
          designation of EX (Central Ernployrnent).


                                                      Page 6   of   10
                                                                                                      J il r,Þ ,, r ".
                                                                                                      r.$r),1:;          rå'




a.   These chanses to zoning and Comprehensive Plan designations will not reduce the jobs capacity of the
     cit]¡ below the number shown on Table 3.07-1 of Title 1 of the Urban Growth Manaeernent Functional
     Plan (209.215 jobs) because all three changes are to zones or Comprehensive Plan designations that
     allow a liigher employment density than the current zoning/Comprehensive Plan designations.

b.   These changes to zoning and Comprehensive Plan desi,qnations will not allow uses that reduce off-
     peat perfomance on lUd
     Resional Freight S-ystem Map below standards in the Reeional Transportation Plan (RTP). or exceed
     volume-to-capacit)' ratios on Table 7 of the 1999 Oregon Hiehway Plan (OHPI for state highways.
     unless mitigating action is taken that will restore performance to RTP and OHP standards within two
     vears after approval ofuses.

     Metro's RTP Table 2.4, Regional Mobility Policy designates LOS o'E" as the standard for off-peak
     hours performance. Interstate 405 is classified as a Main Freight Roadway and NW Nicolai Street is
     identified as a Freight Road Connector. In April 2010 additional traffrc analysis was conducted for
     three intersections: NW Nicolai at NW Wardway St., NW Nicolai at US 30, and NW Vaughn at NW
     23'd Ave. The intersections performed at Level of Service C, B and D, respectively, in 2010. The
     analysis showed that in 2030, all three intersections would continue to perfonn at the same level of
     service with the proposed zoning in place. This is above the LOS E standard criterion required by Title
     4 (see Exhibit C-L, Trffic Analysis for Title 4).

     The three intersections studied in April 2010 also met the volume-to-capacity ratios on Table 7 of the
     1999 Oregon Higliway Plan (OHP) for state highways. The standard listed in Table 7 is .99
     volume/capacity (v/c). According to Exhibit C-2, Supplement to Trffic Analysisfor Title 4,in2030,
     tlre v/c for the three intersections are .56,.76 and .93. Therefore this standard is met.

c.   These chanqes to zonins and Comprehensive Plan designations will not diminish the intended function
     of the Central CitJ¡ or Regional or Town Centers as the orincipal locations of retail, cultural. and civic
     services in their market areas because Area 2 (north of Pettygrove) and Area 3 (between Thurman,
     Vaughn, and23rd) already have a high concentration of residential and comrnercial uses; changing the
     zoning and designation for this area will actually be an expansion of the Central City, reinforcing the
     role of the Central City as the principal location of retail, cultural, and civic services in the region.
     Area I (directly north of Vaughn) will become a buffer zone between the industrial sanctuary and the
     Central City.

d.   These changes to zoning and Comprehensive Plan designations will not reduce the integrity or
     viability of a traded sector cluster of industries for three rasons. First, the resulting reduction in
     available land for industry-related clusters in the Working Harbor (primarily metals manufacturing and
     distribution) will be offset by expansion of developable land for office-related clusters in the NW
     portion of the Central City (particularly creative services and software). This shift is consistent with
     office growth trends in the River District. Area 2 (north of Pettygrove) has a rnix of distribution
     facilities, residential, retail, and office uses. Second, the changes will reinforce a functional boundary
     along the Vaughn coridor between the Working Harbor's Regionally Significant Industrial Area to the
     north and the higher density, mixed use development in the expanding Central City to the south,
     encouraging long-tenn investments in both areas. llhis Vaughn coridor boundary (Area 1) was jointly
     developed in the Guild's Lake Industrial Sanctuary Plan (2001 and 2003) and Northwest District Plan.
      Third, the change to Area I (north of Vaughn) will reinforce the metals cluster, because it will
     establish a transition buffel between the expanding Central City and a tnajor steel manufacturer on the
     north side of Vaughn (ESCO), and ease expansion of ESCO's headquarters offices. Having
     headquarters offices in proxirnity to the manufacturing functions creates significant efhciencies for


                                                 Page 7   of l0
                                                                                                "Ëå$i.4i,ftt1
companies. Additionally, Area I (north of Vaughn) will become a transitional buffer to keep housing
and most retail uses frorn conflicts with the industrial uses, and the buffer will help resist market
pressures for residential and retail uses pressing northward.

These chanqes to zoninq and Comprehensive Plan desisnations will not create or worsen a sigûificant
imbalance between jobs and housing in a regional market area. There is currently no signiflrcant
imbalance. Area 1 (north of Vaughn) is changing from a Comprehensive Plan designation of IS
(Industrial Sanctuary) to ME (Mixed Ernployrnent). Both designations are designed to foster jobs, and
housing is severely limited in botli. Although the new designation rnay result in more jobs in the area,
tlre increase will not be significant enough to cause a significant imbalance in the region. AreaZ
(north of Pettygrove) is changing from the IGI zone with an IS (Industrial Sanctuary) Comprehensive
Plan designation to the EXd zone with an EX (Central Employrnent) Cornprehensive Plan
designation. While botli the Industrial and Ernployment zones and designations allow jobs, the EXd
zone also allows residential development. Because both uses are allowed-and because it is a
relatively small area-the changes will not be enough to cause a significant imbalance in the region.
Area 3 (between Thurman, Vaughn, and 23rd) is changing frorn CS zoning (UC Comprehensive Plan
designation) to EX zoning and designation. Both the CS and EX zones allow for jobs and residential
development, so there will not be a sþifrcant effect on the balance ofjobs and housing in the region.

These changes to zoning and Comprehensive Plan designations on lands that are desiqnated as
Resionall:/ Significant Industrial Areas will not remove from that desiqnation land that is especially
suitable for industrial use due to the availability of specialized services                            al
power or industrial eases. or due to proximity to freiqht transport facilities. such as trans-shipment
facilities. Both Area 1 (nor1h of Vaughn) and Area 2 (north of Pettygrove) are areas of industrial land
where the zone or Comprehensive Plan designation is changing from Industrial to Employment.
Neither area is classified by Metro as Regionally Significant, so this criterion is met.




                                          Page B of 10
                                                                                                      g*Í$,q1      1#
NOW, THEREFORE, the Council directs:

      a.   The Portland Cornprehensive Plan Map and the Official Zoning Map of the City of Portland are
           amended, as shown in Exhibit A, Proposed Amendments to Zoning and Comprehensive Plan
           Maps;

      b.   The Bureau of Transportation is directed to amend the Transportation System Plan (TSP) as
           follows:

           (1)   Revise the description for TSP Project #60027 to add, as a project element, the project
                 identified in Attachment C of Exhibit B, the Northwest District Plan Remand
                 Transportation Model Technical Report. This project element will be identified as a
                 priority component of Project #60027. In addition, the timeframe identified for the project
                 will be revised from Years 6-10 to Years l-5.

           (2)   Revise tlie TSP Ref,rnements Plan and Studies chapter to add a new study calling for a
                 performance assessment of the NW 23'dl¡{V/ Vaughn Street intersection. This study will
                 summarize the process and findings of the Northwest District Plan Remand Transportation
                 Model Technical Report and will describe changes in development in the Northwest
                 District Plan area and detennine the level-of-service at this intersection.

     c.    The work described in b.(2) above will be undeftaken in 2015 and will determine if intersection
           improvements are needed at that time. If it is found that improvements are not needed at that
           tirne, this assessment process will be updated in five years intervals to identify wlien intersection
           improvements are needed.

     d.    The year for when inprovements for the NW 23'dÆ{W Vauglin Street intersection will be needed
           will be determined througli studies described in b.(2) and c. above When the year for
           improvements is identified, the Bureau of Transportation is directed to add TSP Project #60027
           to the Capital Improvements Program at its next update. This work will include both project
           development activities and construction.

     e.    If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, pluase, diagram or drawing contained in this
           ordinance, or the plan, map or code it adopts or arnends, is held to be deficient, invalid or
           unconstitutional, that shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions. The Council declares
           that it would have adopted the plan, map, or code and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
           phrase, diagram and drawing thereof, regardless of the fact that any one or more sections,
           subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, diagrams or drawings contained in this Ordinance, may
           be found to be deficient, invalid or unconstitutional.




                                                Page 9   of l0
                                                                                                          1"8$$               1"5

Section 2. This ordinance will be effective on December I,z}l},in
                                                                anticipation of approval of these
amendments by the Metro Council in August 2010. Metro Council's actions are effective 90 days after
adoption.

Section 3. In the event that the Metro Council does not approve these changes to the Zoning and
Comprehensive Plan Maps by September 15, 2010, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is directed to
return to City Council before December 1, 2010 with an ordinance to extend the effective date of this
ordinance.




PassedbytheCouncil: JUN 1,?      2010                             LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                                                  Auditor of the City of Portland
Mayor Adams                                                       By
                                                                              .:l -- j¿---f- r-'              ""-' i   i*t-   "
Prepared by: Sandra P. Wood                                           ;-^/-                        ,'    '4                       "


Date Prepared: June 10, 2010                                                                            Deputy




                                              Page 10   of   10
                                                                                         S+e o e16
                                                                                        No.
                                                                                         Asenda
                                                                                                SUBffHTUTE
                                       i i.
                                                                                   oRDrNANcENo. 1B3fli5
                                                                                               Title
 Amend'Nodhwest District Plan and Official Zoning and Comprehensive Plan maps in portion of
 Northwest Portland (Ord inance).




                                 INTRODUCED BY                              CLERK USE: DATE FILED
                               Commissioner/Aud itor:
                           Mavor Sam Adams
                   COMMISSIONER APPROVAL                                                                    LaVonne Griffin-Valade
ft¡rf   5   v6   ¡-p   i   ¡   2   ¡   ¿       iuh+*r*¡ar,   ],t+-,* ]to-                                Auditor of the City of Portland
                                           "
Position l/l,Jtilities - FriÞ

Position 2Morks - Fish                                                      By:     L,
                                                                                                         Deputy
Position 3/Affairs - SalÞman

Position 4/Safety - Leonard                                                 ACTION TAKEN:

                                   BUREAU APPROVAL
Bureau: Planning and Sustainability                                         0uñ t o zomdslïou#$1fr,fi                  RilDTNGJUN
Bureau Head: Susan Anderson                                                                                                                r?   z0t0   zp.M.

Prepared by: Sandra Wood
Date Prepared: Mav 27,2010
Financial lmpact Statement
Completed X       Amends Budget                                     I
Not Required                           n
Portland Policy Document
lf "Yes" requires City Policy paragraph stated
in documpnt.
Yesl I                                     NoX
CouncilMeetino Date
June 10, 2010-

City Attorney Approval



                                                    AGENDA                                      FOUR-FIFTHS AGENDA             COMMISSIONERS VOTED
                                                                                                                               AS    FOLLOWS:
TIME CERTAN                                       n                                                                                                YEAS        NAYS
Start time:
                                                                                            1.FriV                             1. F¡itz
Total amount of time needed:
(for presentation, testimony and discussion)
                                                                                            2. Fish                                 risn
                                                                                                                               f.
coNsENT                                fl                                                   3. Saltzman                        3. SalÞman


REGULAR                       I         XI                                                  4. Leonard                         4. Leonard
Total amount of time needed: / hrs.
(for presentat¡on, test¡mony and discússion)                                             Adams                                 Adams
               Current Comprehensive Plan Map for Project Area                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Exhibit A: 1 of 2



                                                                                   N.
                                                                                      W
                                                                                      .2
                                                                                       5T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.




                                                                                         H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                            AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .




                                                                                               E
                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FR




                                                            26
                                                                                                                            COLA          I ST.                                                                                                                                                                                           O




                                                               T
                                                                                                                    N.W. NI                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NT




                                                                                                                                                                    PL.
                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N.
                                                                                                   ST.                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .                                                       AV




                                                                   AV




                                                                                                                                                                                               30
                                                                                  I
                                                                           NICOLA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E.




                                                                      E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N.W.              REED                              ST.
                                              .
                                           N.W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N.W. 21ST PL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AV




                                                                                                                                                                                               HWY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E




                                                                                                                                                                    23RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                           N.W. 27




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AVE.
                                                         EX
                                  TH ST.




                                                                                                               IS




                                                                                                                                                                    N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RX




                                                                                                                                                                                               U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N.W.                YORK                              ST.




                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.W. 22ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SH
                                                                                                                                                                                 IS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N.W
                                                              IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N.W.            ROOSEVELT                            ST.                                                                                                                AV
                            EX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX
                                                          N.W.                  WILSON                   ST.                                                                                                            N.W.                                            WILSON                                              ST.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N.W. 21 ST AV E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AVE.
                                                                                                                                                     AVE.
                                                         IS                                                                           IS




                                                                                                                                                                                        AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N.W.
                                                                       AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .
                   N.W.                                  VAUGHN                                       ST.                                  N.W.             VAUGHN                ST.                                                                                                        N.W.        VAUGHN                      ST.                          N.W.        VAUGHN                              ST.
                            UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U.S
                                                                                                                                                            UC                                                                              .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N.
                                                                                                                               PL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IS




                                                                                                                                                                     PL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HW                                                                                                                                                                                     HE                                            O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Y.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OC                                      NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KA
                              AVE.




                                                                       26TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VE.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30
                                                                                                                              N.W. 24TH



                                                         UPSHUR




                                                                                                                                                                    23RD
          N.W.
                                                                                UC
                                                                                                ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                               UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N.W.                                  UPSHUR               ST.
                                                                                                                                                     24TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N .W. U PSHU R ST.

                                              RH
                                                                                                            AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N.W.
               UC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX
                                                                                                                                                                    N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AVE.
                           UC THURMAN
N.W.                                                                 ST.
                                                                                          UC                                                  N.W.                              THURMAN                ST.                                                                                                                                                                                                       N.W.          THURMAN                                                           ST.
                                                                     UC                                                   UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N.W
                                                     UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AVE.
                                                                                                                                                  N.W.
                               27TH




                                                                                                            25TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            YE




                                                                                                                                                                                        23RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O         U.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N       S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AV E .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16TH
  N.W.                                                    SAVIER                          ST.                             N.W.                               SAVIER                              ST.                      IS                                                                                                                                                     N.W. SAVIER ST.                                               N.W. SAVIER ST.

                                                                                                                                                              UC                                                                                                                  EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19TH AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y.
                              N.W.




                                                                       N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                   UC
                                                                                                            N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15TH
                                                                                                                                                                                        N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18TH
  RALEIGH                                           ST.                                                                       N.W.                          RALEIGH                              ST.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30                                 N.W.                            RALEIGH
                                                                                                                    R2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N.W. 20 TH AVE .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IS
                              AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N.W.
                                                                                                                                                              UC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N.W.
                              27TH




       QUIMBY              ST.                                                        OS                                                                     QUIMBY                              ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N.W.            QUIMBY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX
                              N.W.




               N.W.                                PETTYGROVE                         ST.                                                                                                                                                 PETTYGROVE                                              ST.                                                                                                                                               N.W.                                                        PETTYGRO
                                                                       AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX
       N.
          W
                                                                                                            AVE.




           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RH
                                                                                                                                                  AVE.




                              R5                  N.W.      OVERTON                           ST.                     R1                                     N.W.                                                                   OVERTON                                                  ST.                                                                                                                EX                                  N.W.                                                         OVERTON
               N.W .
                S UM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UC                                            RH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22ND
                                                                       26TH
                 MIT CT




                                                                                                                                                                                        AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AVE.
                           R7                                                                       OC
                       .




                                     CO




               Proposed Comprehensive Plan Map for Project Area
                                                           N.W.               NORTHRUP ST.                                                                  N.W.                                       NORTHRUP                                                                 ST.                                                                                                                                                                     N.W.                                                    NORTHRUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                   250                                 500
                                           R
                                            NE




                                                                                   N.
                                                                       N.W.



                                                                                      W
                                               L




                                                                                      .2
                                                  L




                                                                                       5T




                                                                                                            25TH
                                                                                         H
                                                                                            AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Feet
                                                                                               E
                                                                                              .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FR
                                                            26




                                                                                                                                     ST.
                                                                                                                              COLA I                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                               T




                                                                                                                    N.W. NI                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NT
                                                                                                                                                                    PL.
                                                                 H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N.
                                                                                                   ST.                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .                                                       AV
                                                                   AV




                                                                                                                                                                                               30




                                                                                  I
                                                                           NICOLA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E.
                                                                      E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N.W.              REED                              ST.
                                              .
                                           N.W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N.W. 21ST PL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AV
                                                                                                                                                                                               HWY.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E   .
                                                                                                                                                                    N.W. 23RD
                           N.W. 27




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AVE.




                                                         EX
                                  TH ST.




                                                                                                               IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RX
                                                                                                                                                                                               U.S.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N.W.                YORK                              ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.W. 22ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .




                                                                                                                                                                                 IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N.W




                                                              ME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N.W.                                                 ST.                                                                                                                AV
                            EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROOSEVELT                                                                                                                                                 E.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX
                                                           N.W.                 WILSON                   ST.                                                                                                            N.W.                                            WILSON                                              ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N.W. 21 ST AV E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AVE.
                                                                                                                                                     AVE.




                                                      ME                                                                                  ME
                                                                                                                                                                                        AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N.W.
                                                                       AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17TH



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .
                   N.W.                                  VAUGHN                                       ST.                                  N.W.             VAUGHN                ST.                                                                                                        N.W.        VAUGHN                      ST.                          N.W.        VAUGHN                              ST.
                            UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                            UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N.
                                                                                                                               PL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W.
                                                                                                                                                                     PL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Y.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19TH
                               AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AV
                                                                       26TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E   .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30
                                                                                                                              N.W. 24TH




                                                         UPSHUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IS
                                                                                                                                                                    23RD




          N.W.
                                                                                UC
                                                                                                ST.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                               EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UPSHUR               ST.
                                                                                                                                                     24TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N .W. U PSHU R ST.

                                              RH
                                                                                                            AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N.W.




               UC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX
                                                                                                                                                                    N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AVE.




                           UC THURMAN                                ST.
                                                                                          UC                                                  N.W.                              THURMAN                ST.                                                                                                                                                                                                       N.W.          THURMAN                                                           ST.
                                                                     UC                                                   UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N.W
                                  UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AVE.
                                                                                                                                                  N.W.
                               27TH




                                                                                                            25TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            YE
                                                                                                                                                                                        23RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O                    U.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AV E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N.W.




  N.W.                                                    SAVIER                          ST.                             N.W.                               SAVIER                              ST.                                                                                                                                                                             N.W. SAVIER ST.                                               N.W. SAVIER ST.

                                                                                                                                                              UC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19TH AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y.
                              N.W.




                                                                       N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                   UC
                                                                                                            N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15TH
                                                                                                                                                                                        N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18TH




   RALEIGH                                          ST.                                                                       N.W.                          RALEIGH                              ST.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30                                 N.W.
                                                                                                                    R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N.W. 20 TH AVE .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N.W.
                              AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N.W.




                                                                                                                                                              UC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N.W.
                              27TH




                           ST.                                                        OS                                                                                                         ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX
       QUIMBY                                                                                                                                                QUIMBY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N.W.            QUIMBY



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX
                              N.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                             RH
               N.W.                                PETTYGROVE                         ST.                                                                                                                                                 PETTYGROVE                                              ST.                                                                                                                                              N.W.                                                         PETTYGRO
                                                                       AVE.




       N.
          W
                                                                                                            AVE.




           .
                                                                                                                                                  AVE.




                              R5                  N.W.      OVERTON                           ST.                     R1                                     N.W.                                 RH                                OVERTON                                                  ST.                                                                                                                                                   N.W.                                                          OVERTON
               N.W .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX
                S UM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UC                                            RH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22ND
                                                                       26TH
                 MIT CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                        AVE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AVE.




                           R7                                                                       OC
                       .




                                      CO
                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        City of Portland, Bureau of Planning & Sustainability
                                             NE




                                                                       N.W.
                                                L L




                                                                                                            5TH
             EXHIBIT B:
   Northwest District Plan Remand
Transportation Model Technical Report




             May 27, 2010




                                   Prepared by:
          Portland Bureau of Transportation and
           Bureau of Planning and Sustainability
                                                                                     2
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010




The City of Portland is committed to providing
equal access to information and hearings. If you
need special accommodation, please call 503-
823-7700, the City's TTY at 503-823-6868, or the
Oregon Relay Service at 1-800-735-2900.

For more information about the Northwest District Plan Remand Transportation Model
Technical Report, please contact:

Courtney Duke, Senior Planner
Portland Bureau of Transportation
1120 SW 5th Avenue, Suite 800
Portland, Oregon 97204
Phone: 503-823-7265
Email: Courtney.duke@portlandoregon.gov

A digital copy of this report can be found at:
www.portlandoregon.gov/pbs/nwremand
                                                                                                                          3
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010




                                            Table of Contents


Executive Summary ..................................................................................................5

     I. Background..................................................................................................6
     II. Methodology and Descriptions...........................................................................6
          - Description of Base Transportation Model
          - Description of "Neighborhood Collector" Street Classification
          - Explanation of "Level of Service" Ratings
     III. Key Findings ..............................................................................................9
     IV. Conclusion.............................................................................................. ...12

Appendices
   A. Plots .........................................................................................................13
   B. Transportation Demand Forecasting ...............................................................19
       - Base Model Projections
       - Planning Analysis
       - Traffic Operations Analysis
       - Conclusion
   C. Proposed Improvements to the I-405 Interchange at NW Vaughn Street
       and NW 23rd Avenue.................................................................................. ..40
       - Attachment 1
       - Attachment 2
       - Attachment 3
       - Attachment 4
                                                                            4
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010




                                  This page was intentionally left blank.
                                                                                                           5
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010




                                    Executive Summary

In coordination with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability (BPS), the Transportation Planning
Division of the Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) has prepared an updated transportation analysis for
the Northwest District Plan (NWDP) to determine whether the zoning changes adopted in the Plan
significantly affect one or more transportation facilities in the NWDP area.

In particular, this analysis is intended to address the Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA)
determination that the City provided insufficient data for two transportation impact findings related to
the land use changes in the NWDP. LUBA asked the City to provide answers to two questions:

        (1)      Will the NWDP cause traffic that changes the functional classification of NW Vaughn
                 Street as a "Neighborhood Collector?"

                 and

        (2)      Will the performance standards at the intersection of NW 23rd Ave. and NW Vaughn
                 St. and the Interstate 405 (I-405) ramp remain at acceptable levels of service?

As part of the analysis, PBOT modeled future growth in the area, which produced projections of
1,050 new households and 3,370 new jobs in the district. This analysis assessed the impacts of
growth on the transportation infrastructure in the NWDP area and concluded that:

        (1)      NW Vaughn St., which is currently classified as a "Neighborhood Collector," will
                 continue to function as it does today; and

        (2)      With planned future mitigation, the I-405 ramp and the intersection of NW 23rd Ave.
                 and NW Vaughn St. will have performance standards above the minimum acceptable
                 level.
                                                                                                            6
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010




I.      Background

In the fall of 2003, the Portland City Council adopted the Northwest District Plan (NWDP). The NWDP
was appealed to the Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA) for multiple reasons. Although LUBA upheld
most of the NWDP, it remanded the plan on two issues relating to the State's Transportation Planning
Rule. LUBA concluding that:

        A. "[f]or each type of traffic classification, the majority of motor vehicle trips on a street
           should conform to its classification description ... (and) remand is necessary for the city to
           address whether [the NWDP] "significantly affects" NW Vaughn St. for purposes of OAR
           660-012-0060(2)(c)..."; and

        B. "There may be evidence ... in the record that would allow a reasonable person to
           conclude that [the NWDP] will not "reduce the performance standards" of the NW Vaughn
           St/NW 23rd Ave. intersection and the Interstate 405 on-ramp of the facility "below the
           minimum acceptable level identified in the TSP" within the meaning of OAR 660-012-
           0060(2)(d), but the city has not cited us to it.."

Therefore, Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) and Bureau of Planning and Sustainability
(BPS) produced this updated analysis to look at two particular transportation impacts of the NWDP: 1)
whether the land uses allowed by the NWDP would allow NW Vaughn St. to continue to function as a
neighborhood collector; and 2) whether the NWDP will significantly reduce the performance standards
of the NW Vaughn St/NW 23rd Ave. intersection and the Interstate 405 (I-405) on-ramp.

II.       Methodology and Descriptions

The Northwest District Plan (NWDP) transportation analysis was based on data that was developed
through use of Metro's model for forecasting development (the "Metro Model") and the Portland
Bureau of Transportation's model for forecasting traffic related to the Central City Transportation
Management Plan (CCTMP2007).

The study looked at the NWDP area as defined in combining sub areas of the Metro Model (see Plot 1
for sub-model boundary map). The 2005 traffic counts, the most recent available, were used as the
base year for current conditions. Development was then forecast through the year 2030.

ODOT has accepted the traffic analysis findings; including the methodology and assumptions used for
estimating a "reasonable worst case" of households and employment, both before and after (i.e.
without and with the NWDP).

The following provides more detailed explanation of the methodology and defines some of the critical
terms used in the analysis.
                                                                                                         7
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

Description of Base Transportation Model.
In order to analyze the transportation impacts of the NWDP, PBOT established sub-area
transportation models that can assess transportation impacts at two different scales ­

    1. Transportation demand for the area on the macro level using the Visumsoftware package;
       and,
    2. Detailed operations on critical intersections and links using the Synchro/SimTraffic software
       package.

The aims of the modeling process are to:
   · Forecast future traffic growth and travel patterns
   · Examine Transportation Planning Rule compliance for impacted Oregon Department of
       Transportation (ODOT) facilities (i.e. I-405)
   · Analyze network traffic conditions and traffic impacts in the study area

The NWDP Visum sub model is a refined version of the Visum model used for the North Pearl District
Plan (NPDP). Both sub-models were derived from the Metro Model. The Metro Model is derived from
Metro's previously-validated 2005 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) and 2030 Milwaukie Light-rail
(LRT) No-Build models.

While the city model kept most of the modeling assumptions that were utilized for the Metro Model, the
following assumptions were altered to refine the model for the focus area:

    a. The city model added finer detail Transportation Analysis Zones (TAZ).
    b. The city model added more detailed local networks with calibrated link and turn
       characteristics.
    c. For a project sub area, the intersection turn capacities are coded according to its peak hour
       signal timing plan.
    d. The city model codes Downtown networks with capacity constraints. Metro's regional model
       codes Downtown streets with un-limited capacity.

The NWDP sub-model boundary is shown in Plot 1. The area bounded by blue lines is the NWDP
sub- area, a total of 11 TAZs.

Description of "Neighborhood Collector" street classification
The Transportation Element of the City's Comprehensive Plan describes a neighborhood collector in
the following way:

    Neighborhood Collectors are intended to serve as distributors of traffic from Major City Traffic
    Streets or District Collectors to Local Service Streets and to serve trips that both start and end
    within areas bounded by Major City Traffic Streets and District Collectors.

        ·    Land Use/Development. Neighborhood Collectors should connect neighborhoods to
             nearby centers, corridors, station communities, main streets, and other nearby
             destinations. New land uses and major expansions of land uses that attract a significant
                                                                                                             8
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

             volume of traffic from outside the neighborhood should be discouraged from locating on
             Neighborhood Collectors.
        ·    Connections. Neighborhood Collectors should connect to Major City Traffic Streets,
             District Collectors, and other Neighborhood Collectors, as well as to Local Service
             Streets.
        ·    Function. The design of Neighborhood Collectors may vary over their length as the land
             use character changes from primarily commercial to primarily residential. Some
             Neighborhood Collectors may have a regional function, either alone or in concert with
             other nearby parallel collectors. All Neighborhood Collectors should be designed to
             operate as neighborhood streets rather than as regional arterials.

Essentially, Neighborhood Collector Streets should be primarily used for trips in the neighborhood and
not for traffic that is trying to move through an area.

Explanation of Level-of-Service (LOS) ratings
Level-of-Service (LOS) is a concept used in transportation planning to describe the operating
conditions on a roadway and at intersections. LOS describes operating conditions on a scale from "A"
to "F", with A describing a free flowing condition and F describing bumper-to-bumper conditions. If
LOS is F, demand has exceeded roadway capacity, which forces excess demand onto parallel routes
and extends the peak period. The LOS scale is determined by a mixture of quantitative measures,
such as speed, travel time, density of vehicles and delay as well as qualitative observations, such as
freedom to maneuver.

Below is a chart that describes the various LOS operating conditions for intersections.
 Table 1: Intersection LOS Definitions*          Description
 LOS
 LOS A                                           Free flow with no delays. Users are virtually
                                                 unaffected by others in the traffic stream.
 LOS B                                           Traffic flows smoothly with few delays.
 LOS C                                           Stable flow but the operation of individual users
                                                 becomes affected by other vehicles. Modest delays.
 LOS D                                           Delay becomes more noticeable.
 LOS E                                           Traffic volumes are at or close to capacity, resulting in
                                                 significant delays and average speeds which are no
                                                 more than about one-third the uncongested speed.
 LOS F                                           Traffic demand exceeds available capacity with very
                                                 slow speeds, long delays and standing queues at
                                                 signalized intersections.

The Transportation System Plan (TSP) contains the adopted policies regarding the City's
transportation system. Table 11.1, Performance Measures for Regionally Significant Streets ­
Deficiency Thresholds and Operating Standards, establishes LOS E as the acceptable LOS for the
NW 23rd/Vaughn interchange with I-405.
                                                                                                            9
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010


III.    Key Findings

The transportation analysis resulted in nine key findings, as follows:

1. Growth Related to the NWDP. Land use changes adopted with the NWDP will contribute to
   the addition of approximately 1,050 new households and 3,370 new jobs in the district by
   the 2030. Metro's regional model assumes that the NWDP area will have slower household and
   population growth when compared to City and regional averages.

                                2005                 2030 Base 2005-2030
                                                                growth
                       HH      EMP      HH        EMP       HH       EMP
            NWDP         4,970   18,040     6,020    21,410 21%      19%
            City       234,700  442,700   299,500   603,100 28%      36%
            Region     766,800 1032,000 1,134,100 1,691,900 48%      64%

2. Estimate of Pedestrian Trips. Walking as a percent of daily traffic will increase in the
   NWDP area from approximately 7% in 2005 to 8% by 2030. This is slightly higher than city
   averages but less than what otherwise might be reasonably expected to occur in the future.

    For example, walk mode splits in the neighboring North Pearl District Plan area are predicted at
    13% in 2005 and 20% in 2030. This conservative estimate increases the amount of trips forecast
    for automobile traffic and could be due to the impact that the industrial area north of Vaughn has
    on individual transportation choices.

3. Estimate of Transit Trips. The NWDP area's transit mode split will grow, but remain
   modest through 2030. As a percentage of daily trip traffic, transit trips are predicted to increase
   from 6% in 2005 to 10% in 2030.

4. Estimate of Auto Trips. Approximately 80% of all future trips in the study area will be made
   by automobile. This represents a decrease of nearly 6% over 2005, but this mode split remains
   relatively high for an area with a substantial infrastructure for transit, bikes and pedestrians. This
   could be due to study area including the industrial sites north of Vaughn.

5. Estimate of Bike Trips. While the model doesn't produce an estimate of the percentage of future
   trips that will be made by bicycle, one can deduce that these trips will increase from 1% in 2005
   to 2% in 2030.

6. Identification of Access Routes to the District. The I-405 ramps east of NW 23rd Ave will
   remain a major route by which traffic accesses the district. During the evening (PM) peak
   hours in 2005, approximately 28 percent of district traffic used these ramps accounting for nearly
   81 percent of total ramp traffic. The next major access routes for district traffic are the streets
   connecting to the south. The north/south streets from NW 16th Ave to NW 23rd Ave transported
   about 20 percent of total district traffic during the same PM peak hours in 2005. The relative role
   of all these routes is projected to remain the same in 2030.
                                                                                                             10
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

7. The Role of NW Vaughn for Neighborhood Traffic. In 2030, with the zone changes, NW
   Vaughn St will continue to function as it does today. Approximately 85% of the traffic on NW
   Vaughn St -- west of NW 23rd Ave. -- starts or ends in the area bounded by Major City streets
   and District Collectors (NW 16th, W. Burnside, NW Yeon). This area boundary represents the
   policy description of appropriate service area for a Neighborhood Collector.

    The zone changes proposed will have no significant effect on the performance of NW Vaughn St.
    in regards to its street classification. In 2030, the percentage of trips starting and ending in the
    area bounded by Major City streets and District Collectors (NW 16th, W. Burnside, NW Yeon)
    remains the same as today. As described in the TSP, "Neighborhood Collector may have a
    regional function, either alone or in concert with other nearby parallel collectors." NW Vaughn St,
    in part, currently provides a regional access function, which is consistent with the City's policy for
    Neighborhood Collectors located near freeway entrances. Experience elsewhere has
    demonstrated that mixed use zoning and subsequent development actually increases local trips
    and displaces non-local trips. Therefore, NW Vaughn St. meets the City's policies for the role of
    Neighborhood Collectors today and the zone changes will not impact this function.

8. Estimate of the Impact of North Pearl Zoning Changes. Development forecast for the North
   Pearl will not result in a significant traffic increase on the streets or freeway ramps in
   NWDP area. The analysis of the NWDP traffic impacts reviewed possible traffic impacts from the
   major land use and transportation recommendations in the recently completed North Pearl District
   Rezoning project and found the number of trips projected to and from the NWDP area to be
   insignificant.

9. Estimate of Future Congestion. By 2030, congestion during the PM peak in the NWDP area
   will increase, although not dramatically. The percent of traffic that would encounter congestion
   increases from 3 percent to 17 percent in terms of vehicle miles, and the total length of congested
   streets will increase from .6 miles to 2.2. miles. The most noticeable area of congestion is
   projected on NW Yeon Ave. west of NW Nicolai St. The majority of traffic on these street
   segments are through-trips connecting to US-30/I-405. The northbound traffic on NW 23rd Ave,
   south of NW Thurman St, is projected to reach its link capacity at the macro planning level
   analysis. Because of this, additional micro level analysis was conducted which then showed the
   intersection performing at an acceptable level of service. The table below summarizes the PM
   peak 2-hour traffic conditions of the district streets, with the average PM peak 2-hour volumes
   increasing from 570 to 740.

          NWDP Study Area Transportation            2005           2030
          Model Summary
          (thick links in Plot 2)
          Average link volumes                           570           740
          Total vehicle miles                         23,400        30,900
          Total VHT1 (h)                               1050           1480
          Congested streets
          # of links                                        5           14
          Miles                                           0.6          2.2
          Vehicle-miles                                  780          5250
                                                                                                               11
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

            % of total v-m                           3.3%      17.0%
        1   VHT: Vehicle Hour Traveled = Volumes x Travel Time

10. 2030 Performance of the I-405 interchanges.

        a. The 2030 performance of the I-405 ramp at the NW Glisan and NW Everett
           intersections will meet City and ODOT mobility standards. PM peak-hour traffic
           operational analyses were performed to assess the traffic conditions in 2030 using the
           2030 PM2 base model for the intersections with ODOT's freeway facilities. The Synchro
           model results indicate that all I-405 ramp intersections at NW Glisan/NW Everett Sts will
           be operated at the level of service (LOS) D or better with a maximum volume to capacity
           (V/C) ratio of 0.76 occurring during the weekday PM peak hour in year 2030.

        b. 2030 performance of the intersections at I-405 / NW Vaughn / NW 23rd and U.S.30 /
           NW Nicolai / NW Yeon will change from LOS D to LOS F and mitigation of the
           impacts at NW Vaughn and NW 23rd should be required.

              The model examined the operational conditions of these intersections for both AM and
              PM peak hours. The analysis shows that the two ramp intersections currently operate at
              LOS D or better with a maximum V/C of 0.97 during weekday peak hours. Both of these
              interchanges are projected to deteriorate to LOS F with V/C readings of 1.06 in the 2030
              PM peak hour. Acceptable Level of Service for this type of intersection is D or E, therefore
              the intersection drops below the acceptable level of service per the City standards since it
              drops from D to F.

              ODOT has reviewed this analysis and concluded that although intersection operations will
              be below City of Portland mobility standards there is no significant impact on the planned
              function and performance of the state facility, I-405 and the ramps associated with I-405.
              No mitigation of the impact on the state facility is required.

              However, PBOT has concluded that the impacts on the performance of the NW Vaughn
              St. and NW 23rd Ave. intersection requires mitigation. The City proposes actions to
              mitigate the impacts to ensure that the LOS E standard for this intersection is maintained.

              As provided in OAR 660-0012-0060(2)(a) and (3)(d) the City finds that the impact of the
              NWDP land uses will be consistent with the performance standard of LOS E for the
              intersection through mitigation measures that future development will provide.
              Specifically, as development occurs and traffic conditions at the intersection deteriorate, it
              will be necessary to make changes to the intersection and I-405 off- ramp that will
              improve the operation of the intersection. These mitigation measures, which involve
              restriping of the intersection, are already identified in the City's transportation system
              plan. This mitigation will be required as part of future development applications that
              cause the intersection to deteriorate. See Exhibit B for a detailed description, drawings
              and cost estimates for the proposed improvements.
                                                                                                        12
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010



III.    Conclusion

In summary, the traffic analysis finds that the questions posed by LUBA in the remand of the NWDP
are answered affirmatively and the impacts of the NWDP do not change the functional classification of
NW Vaughn and do not cause the intersection of NW 23rd and I-405 to fall below performance
standards as follows:

NW Vaughn Will Remain a Neighborhood Collector.

The first purpose of this transportation analysis was to determine whether NW Vaughn St would
continue to operate as defined in its classification as a Neighborhood Collector after the
implementation of the NWDP. This analysis shows that the zone changes proposed with the NWDP
will have no significant effect on the performance of NW Vaughn St, in regards to its street
classification.

The I-405 Ramp and the NW Vaughn and NW 23rd Intersection Will Not Fall Below Acceptable
Performance Standards.

The second purpose was to determine whether the NWDP will reduce the performance standards of
the NW Vaughn St and NW 23rd Ave. intersection and the Interstate 405 (I-405) ramp below the
minimum acceptable level. Despite anticipated job and housing growth in the NWDP neighborhood
area by 2030, ODOT has concluded that there is no significant impact on the planned function and
performance of the I-405 (state) facility. PBOT has concluded that operation conditions will be below
City of Portland mobility standards for the city's intersection at some point in the future, and has
proposed changes to the interchange to improve the operation and performance of these facilities in
the future which will bring the performance standard into acceptable levels and compliance with OAR
660-0012-0060(2).
                                                                             13
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

Appendix A
Plots

                             Plot 1. Sub Model Boundary and Northwest TAZs
                                                                                  14
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

                                           District Street Links
The blue links in Plot 2 are marked as the district links for project analysis.


                                Plot 2. Northwest Sub Model Networks
                                                                                                              15
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

Network of the District

Plot 3 shows street classifications within the district and vicinity, as identified in the City of Portland
TSP.
                                     Plot 3. Street Classifications
                                                                                                         16
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

Major Transportation Model Assumptions
Although no major transportation projects are planned within the NWDP project sub area by 2030, two
are located in the vicinity of the NWDP sub area and were built into the 2030 demand model:
        a. The street car loop project in the North Pearl District area immediately to the east, and
        b. The Burnside/Couch couplet project immediately to the south.


Base Model Calibration
The 2005 PM2 sub model has been calibrated using 2005 PM 2-hour traffic counts1. A total of 189
counts are used in the calibration process.

Using the NPDP sub model, a further calibration was performed for the NWDP sub model. The main
calibration measures include: a) dividing four big TAZs (#729, #755-    #757) into eight; and b.)
modifying some TAZs' connectors accordingly.

Through the calibration, a correlation of 0.96 was reached between the counts and the assigned traffic
volumes (see the assignment analysis regression chart, Plot 4). Plot 5 shows assigned volumes and
traffic counts in the core area of the NWDP project. The green links are the links with assignment
errors within +-15 percent, while the blue and orange links represent the under or over assignment
links, respectively. Assignment errors are measured by the formula of: assigned PM2 link volumes /
pm2 traffic link counts.




1
    Some counts are 2007 counts.
                                                                           17
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

Add full page .pdf
                            Plot 4. Assignment Analysis Regression Chart
                                              18




Plot 5. Traffic Counts and Assigned Volumes
                                                                                                         19



Appendix B
Transportation Demand Forecasting

Base Model Projections

The following tables show the land use and resulting trip demands derived from the 2005/2030 NWDP
base models:

Land use ­ Although household and employment growth in NWDP area is projected to occur at a
slower rate when compared with the city and other areas within the region, the area will still
experience significant growth in both categories (i.e., 1050 additional households and an increase of
3370 new jobs). These land use assumptions were based on the adopted NWDP zoning and
comprehensive plan changes. One possible resul1t of these changes could be the constraint of any
additional growth that might have otherwise occured in the study area through 2030.

    Table 1.    Land Use Assumptions in the model
                           2005                   2030         2005-2030 growth
                      HH        EMP          HH        EMP        HH        EMP
NWDP                   4,970     18,040       6,020     21,410     21%         19%
City                 234,700    442,700     299,500    603,100     28%         36%
Region               766,800 1032,000 1,134,100 1,691,900          48%         64%

District Daily Trip Demands and Mode Split ­ The NWDP area's existing auto mode split percentage is
relatively high now and is predicted to remain so in the future. This is especially true when compared
against the neighboring NPDP district. In addition, the most noticeable differences in non-motorized
traffic modes between the two areas are the relatively low readings in the walk mode split, even
though they are still a little higher than City averages. The NWDP walk mode split, as a percent of
daily traffic, is predicted to increase from approximately 7 percent to 8 percent by 2030. The walk
mode splits in the NPDP are predicted at 13 percent in 2005 and 20 percent in 2030. The NWDP walk
figure represents a number slightly higher than City averages but less than what otherwise might be
expected to reasonably occur in the future. Again, this would indicate that the model represents a
reasonable worst case scenario in terms of studying future traffic volumes.

    Table 2.    District Daily Traffic
                       auto               transit            bike             walk         Total
                 trips       %      trips       %      trips    %        trips       %     trips
    2005         180,300 86.0 11,500 5.5               2,100 1.0         15,800      7.5   209,700
    2030         223,900 80.4 27,200 9.8               3,200 1.2         24,100      8.7   278,300
    Growth%      24.2               136.9              51.0              52.2              32.7
                                                                                                              20
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010




    Table 3.    District PM Peak 2-hour Traffic
                        Auto               Transit           Bike1                Walk1         Total
                 trips       %       trips      %      trips       %        trips      %        trips
    2005         15,240 74.6 1,540              7.6    420         2.1      3,160      15.5     20,360
    2030         18,180 66.5 3,700              13.5 640           2.3      4,820      17.6     27,340
    Growth%      19.3               140.3              52.4                 52.5                34.3
    1 Bike and Walk trips are estimated at 20 percent of daily trips.


Network Screen-line Traffic Growth (PM peak 2-hours) ­ The first four screen-lines gate NWDP area
streets (See Plot 6). The table below shows that the traffic running through the gate screen-lines will
grow at a much faster pace than the growth rate of 19.3 percent of the district auto demands. This
implies that through auto traffic will gain shares in the future on those streets. By comparison, the fifth
screen-line is located inside the district, and the traffic growth rate on it is more consistent with NWDP
traffic growth.

    Table 4.     PM Peak 2-Hour Screen-Line Traffic
                   Line 1         Line 2            Line 3               Line 4            Line 5
                 WB      EB     EB      WB      SB        NB           EB      WB        WB      EB
    2005        4350 4820 2500 4110 4850 2290                         6620 5150         2190 2060
    2030        5950 7180 4550 5400 6020 3010                         8610 6970         2560 2640
    Growth      37% 49% 82% 32% 24% 32%                               30% 35%           17% 28%

    Line 1 ­ Northwest of NW Nicolai St. from NW Front Ave. to NW Thurman Ave.
    Line 2 ­ East of NW 16th Ave from NW Front to NW Johnson, no freeway
    Line 3 ­ North of NW Glisan from NW 16th Ave to NW Westover
    Line 4 ­ Freeway I-405 west of Freemont bridge interchange
    Line 5 ­ west of NW 23rd Ave. from NW York St. to NW Pettygrove St.
                                                                     21
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010



                                              Plot 6. Screen Lines
                                                                                                                 22
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

Daily traffic Origin-Destination patterns ­ The top five districts with the highest origin-destination traffic
relations are listed in Table 5. There is no change between 2005 and 2030 in terms of the ranks of
these traffic relations. The average trip distance for trips from, to or through the NWDP Remand area
is 7.3 miles in 2005 PM peak 2-hours.

        Table 5.         PM Peak 2-hour Trip Distribution Pattern
                                         2005                  2030
          Area                     Trips       %         Trips                       %
          Beaverton/Hillsboro      1940       12.9       2590                       14.4
          NWDP Area                1440        9.6       1510                        8.4
          CBD                      1370        9.1       1510                        8.4
          SW Portland              1280        8.5       1500                        8.4
          NE Portland              1170        7.8       1310                        7.3
                          Total*              47.8                                  46.9
        *Total includes remainder of trips distributed to other districts.


Main Access Routes -- During weekday PM peak 2-hours, the I-405 ramps at NW Vaughn St and NW
23rd Ave serve as major access routes to the NWDP area. This represents 28 percent of the total
vehicle demands coming in and out of the district. Other than the freeway, local traffic is scattered
among the streets connecting to the south, east and west and Screen-line 3 captures the most local
traffic among the 3 boundary screen-lines. Local traffic here refers to traffic with at least one trip end
within the district.


        Table 6.              PM 2-hour traffic on the top six main access routes
                                                           District    % of the total      % of the total
                                                           related     district trips      link volumes
                                                          volumes
          2005         I-405 E/ NW 23rd                     4330           28%                 81%
                       NW 18th-19th n/ Glisan               1510           10%                 90%
                       NW 23 n/ Glisan
                              rd                            1040            7%                 73%
                       NW Cornell w/ Love Joy                930            6%                 41%
                       NW Naito Pkwy e/ 14th                 880            6%                 46%

          2030         I-405 E/ NW 23rd                                      4750   26%        76%
                       NW 18th-19t th n/ Glisan                              1840   10%        86%
                       NW 23rd n/ Glisan                                     1140    6%        66%
                       NW 16th n/ Glisan                                     1080    6%        60%
                       NW Naito Pkwy e/ 14th                                 1010    5%        35%


Comprehensive Plan Changes North of Vaughn St - Planning and PBOT prepared a sensitivity
analysis of the Comprehensive Plan changes adopted in the area North of Vaughn St. Planning
conducted a business owner survey and land use analysis that led to the preparation of a
development estimate for all properties in the Mixed Employment (ME) designated area. The analysis
shows that the area could expect a total increase of 191 additional jobs. Some or all of those jobs are
                                                                                                             23
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

already captured by the 2030 base model (See Table 7) and the only TAZs effected by the
Comprehensive Plan changes are TAZ #728 and #1911. These 191 jobs also represent an
insignificant increase when compared to the 2030 base employment figures for the study area (i.e.,
21,410 total employment). As a result, PBOT has concluded that any increase in travel demand
associated with this amount of additional employment would not significantly change the travel
behaviors of or impacts in the NWDP area beyond those already predicted in the 2030 base model.
Therefore, a separate model and analysis for the area North of Vaughn St was deemed unnecessary
and the model uses the same trip generation rates from the 2030 base model to project the additional
vehicle trips from the NWDP, and also maintains the same mode split figures for each TAZ.

Trip Generation ­ In order to derive the PM peak 2-hour trip generation rates from the base models, a
generic trip generation formula is first used to separate the residential and employment components of
the traffic, and then the trip generation rates are obtained by dividing the commercial traffic with the
total employment of the TAZ. On average, 0.5 vehicle trips are added into the PM2 demands by every
new employee in the model.


        Table 7. NWDP & North of Vaughn projected PM2 total vehicle demand
                          2005      2030 Base             2030 NWDP, plus
                                      NWDP                    N of Vaughn
   Household              4720         5760                      5760
   Employment            17110        20400                     20590
   Total Travel          15200        19020                     19100
   Demand*
        *Total Travel Demand is a function derived of Household and Employment figures for the study area.


Plot 7 shows the differences between the rezoning scenario and the base model. It can be seen that
there is no significant difference between the two assignments. The biggest change happens on I-405
east of the division point to US-30 with a total of 39 vehicles for 2 hours (23 eastbound and 16
westbound). With this amount of traffic change, no further traffic analysis, specifically for the
Comprehensive Plan changes North of Vaughn St, is needed.
                                                                                   24
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010




             Plot 7. 2030 PM2 Volume Difference between Base and Rezoning Models
                                                                                                      25
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

North Pearl District Plan Analysis - the NPDP's potential traffic impacts were also examined. PBOT
set-up an alternative scenario which introduced recommendations from the NPDP into the base
model. Those added elements included: a) an additional 2050 households in the North Pearl District
in the planning year of 2030 (i.e., land use alternative 3); b) the NW Lovejoy / NW Overton couplet
street network between 9th and 16th Aves; and c) a range of Transportation Demand Management
(TDM) measures proposed in the plan.

Plot 8 shows the PM 2-hour Volume difference between the 2030 base model and the one with the
additional NPDP changes. The plot shows a limited traffic increase resulting in approximately 20+
more vehicles on NW Vaughn St and 70+ more vehicles on the I-405 westbound off-ramp during the
PM peak 2-hour period. Therefore, PBOT concludes that the North Pearl District Rezoning Plan will
not significantly affect the NWDP traffic conditions at this level of planning analysis.
                                                                                  26
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010



            Plot 8. Volume Difference between NWDP and NPDP Incorporated Models
                                                                                                            27
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010




PM Peak 2-hour Traffic Conditions - A two-level analysis of the PM peak 2-hour traffic conditions was
conducted:
           1. The planning level of analysis focused on the traffic conditions at a link level using
              outputs from the Visum demand model software package
           2. The operations level of analysis was performed at the intersection level using the
              Synchro modeling software package.

Planning Analysis

District PM Peak 2-hour Total Traffic - NWDP area vehicle demands are predicted to increase 20
percent by 2030. This is in the same range of traffic growth projected at the inner screen-line west of
NW 23rd Ave running through NW York St and NW Pettygrove St. Compared with the other four
screen-lines, traffic growth inside the NWDP area appears slower than traffic growth on the streets
surrounding the district.

         Table 8. PM2 total vehicle demand growth
                                          2005           2030        growth %
   District Demands                      15,400         18,400         20%
   4-Screen-line Traffic total1          31,700         44,200         39%
   Average Area Link Volumes    2          570           740           30%

    1The   first four screen-lines, defined as before

Congestion - From the 2005 PM2 assignment (See Plot 9), there are 780 vol-miles (number of
vehicles times distance traveled) on NWDP area links with a v/c ratio higher or equal 1, which equals
approximately 3 percent of total vol-miles for the district links, all of them located in the southwest
boundary of the district network. It is projected that this number would increase to 5,250 vol-miles, or
approximately 17 percent of the total district vol-miles in 2030. More noticeable, the projected
congested links show up inside the district area. The V/C readings on NW Yeon Ave west of NW
Nicolai St, the only Major City Traffic (TSP Classification) street in the district, will reach 1.15. The
northbound link on NW 23rd Ave south of NW Thurman St is also projected to become congested at
link level in 2030. Even though the link capacity is only a generic coding for traffic assignment in the
demand model, the conditions of V/C >1 are a clear indication that the traffic congestion could be a
problem in the future base model.
                                        28




Plot 9. 2005 PM 2-hour Assign Volumes
                                                                  29



Table 9. PM2 traffic conditions on district streets

                               2005        2030 base

  Average Link Volumes          570          740
  Total Veh-Miles             23,400        30,900
  Total VHT (h)
            1                  1050          1480
  Congested streets
                   # of links     5           14
                       miles    0.6           2.2
                  Veh-miles     780          5250
              % of total v-m   3.3%         17.0%
                   Max V/C     1.43          1.58
               Average V/C     1.22          1.26
                   VHD2 (h)      48          260
              % of total vhd   4.6%         17.5%
1 VHT: Vehicle Hour Traveled = Volumes x Travel Time
2 VHD: Vehicle Hour Delayed = Volumes x (Congestion Delay Time)
                                                                                                               30
NW Remand ­ Transportation Technical Report
Revised: May 27, 2010

NW Vaughn St - The 2005 model indicates that NW Vaughn St has two main functions in the network.
First, it functions as a Neighborhood Collector to distribute NWDP area traffic. Approximately 85
percent to 90 percent of the traffic on NW Vaughn St, west of NW 23rd Ave, originates or is destined
primarily along NW Vaughn St (the area shown by the TAZs shown on Plot 1)or is distributed in the
study area east of NW 29th Ave (See Plot 10). This means that only 10 to 15 percent of the total traffic
in the NW Vaughn St corridor could be considered `through' traffic (i.e., having neither an originations
or destination in the corridor). NW Vaughn St is predicted to function roughly the same in 2030 model
and the street function will remain consistent with its current TSP classification, Neighborhood
Collector. Second, NW Vaughn St functions as the primary access route for connecting with I-405,
which provides approximately 28 percent of the district's weekday PM peak 2-hour traffic demands.
On the link west of NW 23rd Ave., approximately 80 percent of eastbound and 90 percent of
westbound traffic are from and to the I-405 freeway, respectively. Therefore Vaughn has two
functions in the street system ­ as a neighborhood collector and as the main access street to I-405.

By comparison, US-30 ramps in the area function in an almost entirely different role for the network
(See Plot 11). The vast majority of traffic on US-30 ramps are through traffic with little relation with the
district.
                                                              31




Plot 10. Volume Traces of the PM Peak 2-hour Vaughn Traffic
                                                             32




Plot 11. Volume Traces of the PM Peak 2-hour US-30 Traffic
                                                                                                       33



NW 23rd Ave - NW 23rd Ave is another important Neighborhood Collector for traffic circulation in the
NWDP area. The select link analysis (See Plot 12) indicates that about 40 percent of the traffic on
NW 23rd Ave reaches south as far as to NW Lovejoy St. The 2030 PM2 base model projects that the
V/C readings on the northbound link of NW 23rd Ave south of NW Thurman St will reach 1.01. The
capacity coded for the street link is 600 vehicles per hour. With active commercial and heavy auto
parkings along both sides of NW 23rd Ave, the narrow 2-lane street could operate at a more congested
level than the demand model indicated.
                                                                34



Plot 12. PM Peak 2-hour Traffic Volume Traces for NW 23rd Ave
                                                                                                              35



Traffic Operation Analysis

All traffic operations analyses at the intersection level are based on current signal timing plans.

Transportation Planning Rule compliance for ODOT facilities - The TPR requires that PBOT and
Planning provide evidence of no significant impact to ODOT facilities resulting from the NWDP. An
operational analysis of intersection capacity on the 2030 base scenario is presented here to provide
background information for this assessment.

Table 10 shows district traffic usage of the freeway ramps in the NWDP vicinity. I-405 ramps at NW
Vaughn St, at NW Everett St, and US-30 ramps at NW Nicolai St are the main freeway ramps used by
NWDP area traffic. More specifically, the traffic conditions on the I-405 ramps at NW Vaughn and NW
Everett Sts are significantly effected by the traffic coming and leaving the district. While the district's
traffic on US-30 SB ramp reach 340 during PM peak 2-hours, the traffic condition is more impacted by
the through traffic here since the district traffic is only 8.4 percent of the total traffic on the link.

    Table 10. 2005 PM Peak 2-Hour Freeway Ramp Usages of NWDP Remand Area traffic
                                             2005 PM2 conditions      Projected 2030
                                                                      PM2 district
                                    District     Total link   %
                                                                      Vol.
                                    traffic      volumes
    I-405 WB Exit @ Vaughn             1830         2400         76.3      1910
    I-405 EB Entry @ Vaughn            2500         2950         84.7      2840
    I-405 NB Exit @ Everett             710         2060         34.5       610
    I-405 SB Entry @ Everett            680         2120         32.1       940
    US30 NB Exit @Nicolai                90         3170          2.8       260
    US30 SB Entry @ Nicolai             340         4030          8.4       220
    I-405 NB Entry @ Glisan              70          920          7.6        70
    I_405 SB Exit @ Glisan              100          705         14.2       120
    I-405 SN Exit @ Couch               100         1340          7.5       120


Plots below show the results from the Synchro model for the freeway ramps mentioned above. All
analyses are based on current signal timing plans on these streets. The 2005 model is based on
traffic turning movement counts and the 2030 volume inputs are derived from the sum of the count
and the volume delta between 2030 and 2005 demand models.

I-405 ramps: NW Glisan and NW Everett Sts - The analysis (See Plot 13) shows that all ramp
intersections will be operate at the LOS (Level of Service) D or better and the maximum V/C is 0.76
during weekday PM peak hour in 2030. This performance meets City and ODOT mobility standards
for these facilities.
                                                                              City of Portland
                                                                               Office of Transportation
                                                                              1120 SW 5th Ave, Rm 800
                                                                                 Portland, OR 97204                                                  File Name                  : 100413TOB
Cldy 55f By: CDB/RC For: Zhou                                                                                                                        Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date                 : 4/13/2010
NW NICOLAI ST @ NW YEON AVE/I405 RAMPS                                                                                                               Page No                    :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- VEHS PEDS
                        NW YEON AVE                          NW NICOLAI ST                 NW YEON AVE/I405 RAMP                   NW NICOLAI ST
                         Southbound                             Westbound                        Northbound                           Eastbound
 Start Time    Left   Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds   App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
      11:00      8     216    17    0       241       14       7     8    0         29    46   201    12    0      259      16       7    68    0        91               0         620           620
      11:15      9     230    21    0       260       17       3     9    0         29    40   225    18    0      283       7      10    68    0        85               0         657           657
      11:30      5     239    35    0       279       24      12     8    0         44    39   182    15    0      236      19       9    72    1       100               1         659           660
      11:45      9     264    20    0       293       17      12     6    0         35    31   250    14    0      295      15       3    76    0        94               0         717           717
      Total     31     949    93    0      1073       72      34    31    0        137   156   858    59    0   1073        57      29   284    1       370               1        2653          2654

      12:00      7    231     22   0        260       13      8     17    0       38    41     201     6     0      248     20      3     96    0       119               0         665           665
      12:15     12    248     31   0        291        8      2     26    0       36    45     216    13     0      274     24      7     72    0       103               0         704           704
      12:30     17    243     41   0        301        3      1     21    0       25    35     219    12     0      266     24      4     62    0        90               0         682           682
      12:45     13    245     19   0        277        9      6     21    0       36    52     230    19     0      301     24      3     51    0        78               0         692           692
      Total     49    967    113   0       1129       33     17     85    0      135   173     866    50     0     1089     92     17    281    0       390               0        2743          2743

 Grand Total    80    1916   206   0       2202       105     51    116   0      272    329   1724   109     0     2162     149     46    565   1       760               1        5396          5397
  Apprch %     3.6      87   9.4                     38.6   18.8   42.6                15.2   79.7     5                   19.6    6.1   74.3
    Total %    1.5    35.5   3.8           40.8       1.9    0.9    2.1            5    6.1   31.9     2            40.1    2.8    0.9   10.5          14.1               0          100

NOTE: NW 29TH AVE CLOSED YEON TO NICOLAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                      15
                                                                                             City of Portland
                                                                                              Office of Transportation
                                                                                             1120 SW 5th Ave, Rm 800
                                                                                                Portland, OR 97204                                                                 File Name                  : 100407TOB
O'cast by: CDB For: Zhou                                                                                                                                                           Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                 : 4/7/2010
NW 23RD AVE/VAUGHN ST/I405 NB EX                                                                                                                                                   Page No                    :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- VEHS PEDS
                                                                                                           NW
                      NW 23RD AVE                                    I-405 NB EX                        VAUGHN               NW 23RD AVE                          NW VAUGHN ST
                       Southbound                                  Southwestbound                           ST                 Northbound                           Eastbound
                                                                                                       Westbound
Start Time    Left   Thru Right    Peds   App. Total   U-Turn   Left   Thru Right    Peds   App. Total Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru Right    Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
     10:00     23      6      7      0        36        43       87    118     28      0       276        0        0     8   10     88    0      106         0    107     12      4       123                0        541           541
     10:15     34     17      5      1        56        41       77    120     39      0       277        0        0    24   15 130       0      169         0     96     10      0       106                1        608           609
     10:30     28     15      6      1        49        51       77    106     36      0       270        0        0    20   13     95    0      128         0    112     21      1       134                1        581           582
     10:45     37     13     11      0        61        48       68    132     35      0       283        0        0    22   22     89    0      133         0    128     18      7       153                0        630           630
     Total    122     51     29      2       202       183      309    476    138      0     1106         0        0    74   60 402       0      536         0    443     61     12       516                2       2360          2362

     11:00     24     15     10      4        49        44       88    116     31      0     279       0       0    23     14   102      0       139         0    135     21      3       159                4        626           630
     11:15     26     19      2      2        47        39       51    126     47      0     263       0       0    22     17   111      0       150         0    131     17      5       153                2        613           615
     11:30     32     14      6      2        52        39       71    120     38      0     268       0       0    31     12    93      0       136         1    115     28     14       158                2        614           616
     11:45     38     11      7      0        56        44       96    114     38      0     292       0       0    25     20   114      0       159         0    113     17      0       130                0        637           637
     Total    120     59     25      8       204       166      306    476    154      0    1102       0       0   101     63   420      0       584         1    494     83     22       600                8       2490          2498

Grand Total    242    110     54    10       406        349      615    952    292     0    2208       0       0    175   123    822     0     1120          1     937    144     34    1116              10         4850          4860
 Apprch %     59.6   27.1   13.3                       15.8     27.9   43.1   13.2     0               0           15.6    11   73.4     0                 0.1      84   12.9      3
   Total %       5    2.3    1.1              8.4       7.2     12.7   19.6      6     0     45.5      0       0    3.6   2.5   16.9     0      23.1         0    19.3      3    0.7        23           0.2          99.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18
                                                                              City of Portland
                                                                               Office of Transportation
                                                                              1120 SW 5th Ave, Rm 800
                                                                                 Portland, OR 97204                                                  File Name                  : 100413TOB
Cldy 55f By: CDB/RC For: Zhou                                                                                                                        Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date                 : 4/13/2010
NW NICOLAI ST @ NW YEON AVE/I405 RAMPS                                                                                                               Page No                    :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- VEHS PEDS
                        NW YEON AVE                          NW NICOLAI ST                 NW YEON AVE/I405 RAMP                   NW NICOLAI ST
                         Southbound                             Westbound                        Northbound                           Eastbound
 Start Time    Left   Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds   App. Total Left Thru Right Peds App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
      11:00      8     216    17    0       241       14       7     8    0         29    46   201    12    0      259      16       7    68    0        91               0         620           620
      11:15      9     230    21    0       260       17       3     9    0         29    40   225    18    0      283       7      10    68    0        85               0         657           657
      11:30      5     239    35    0       279       24      12     8    0         44    39   182    15    0      236      19       9    72    1       100               1         659           660
      11:45      9     264    20    0       293       17      12     6    0         35    31   250    14    0      295      15       3    76    0        94               0         717           717
      Total     31     949    93    0      1073       72      34    31    0        137   156   858    59    0   1073        57      29   284    1       370               1        2653          2654

      12:00      7    231     22   0        260       13      8     17    0       38    41     201     6     0      248     20      3     96    0       119               0         665           665
      12:15     12    248     31   0        291        8      2     26    0       36    45     216    13     0      274     24      7     72    0       103               0         704           704
      12:30     17    243     41   0        301        3      1     21    0       25    35     219    12     0      266     24      4     62    0        90               0         682           682
      12:45     13    245     19   0        277        9      6     21    0       36    52     230    19     0      301     24      3     51    0        78               0         692           692
      Total     49    967    113   0       1129       33     17     85    0      135   173     866    50     0     1089     92     17    281    0       390               0        2743          2743

 Grand Total    80    1916   206   0       2202       105     51    116   0      272    329   1724   109     0     2162     149     46    565   1       760               1        5396          5397
  Apprch %     3.6      87   9.4                     38.6   18.8   42.6                15.2   79.7     5                   19.6    6.1   74.3
    Total %    1.5    35.5   3.8           40.8       1.9    0.9    2.1            5    6.1   31.9     2            40.1    2.8    0.9   10.5          14.1               0          100

NOTE: NW 29TH AVE CLOSED YEON TO NICOLAI
                                                                                             City of Portland
                                                                                              Office of Transportation
                                                                                             1120 SW 5th Ave, Rm 800
                                                                                                Portland, OR 97204                                                                 File Name                  : 100407TOB
O'cast by: CDB For: Zhou                                                                                                                                                           Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                 : 4/7/2010
NW 23RD AVE/VAUGHN ST/I405 NB EX                                                                                                                                                   Page No                    :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- VEHS PEDS
                                                                                                           NW
                      NW 23RD AVE                                    I-405 NB EX                        VAUGHN               NW 23RD AVE                          NW VAUGHN ST
                       Southbound                                  Southwestbound                           ST                 Northbound                           Eastbound
                                                                                                       Westbound
Start Time    Left   Thru Right    Peds   App. Total   U-Turn   Left   Thru Right    Peds   App. Total Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru Right    Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
     10:00     23      6      7      0        36        43       87    118     28      0       276        0        0     8   10     88    0      106         0    107     12      4       123                0        541           541
     10:15     34     17      5      1        56        41       77    120     39      0       277        0        0    24   15 130       0      169         0     96     10      0       106                1        608           609
     10:30     28     15      6      1        49        51       77    106     36      0       270        0        0    20   13     95    0      128         0    112     21      1       134                1        581           582
     10:45     37     13     11      0        61        48       68    132     35      0       283        0        0    22   22     89    0      133         0    128     18      7       153                0        630           630
     Total    122     51     29      2       202       183      309    476    138      0     1106         0        0    74   60 402       0      536         0    443     61     12       516                2       2360          2362

     11:00     24     15     10      4        49        44       88    116     31      0     279       0       0    23     14   102      0       139         0    135     21      3       159                4        626           630
     11:15     26     19      2      2        47        39       51    126     47      0     263       0       0    22     17   111      0       150         0    131     17      5       153                2        613           615
     11:30     32     14      6      2        52        39       71    120     38      0     268       0       0    31     12    93      0       136         1    115     28     14       158                2        614           616
     11:45     38     11      7      0        56        44       96    114     38      0     292       0       0    25     20   114      0       159         0    113     17      0       130                0        637           637
     Total    120     59     25      8       204       166      306    476    154      0    1102       0       0   101     63   420      0       584         1    494     83     22       600                8       2490          2498

Grand Total    242    110     54    10       406        349      615    952    292     0    2208       0       0    175   123    822     0     1120          1     937    144     34    1116              10         4850          4860
 Apprch %     59.6   27.1   13.3                       15.8     27.9   43.1   13.2     0               0           15.6    11   73.4     0                 0.1      84   12.9      3
   Total %       5    2.3    1.1              8.4       7.2     12.7   19.6      6     0     45.5      0       0    3.6   2.5   16.9     0      23.1         0    19.3      3    0.7        23           0.2          99.8
