                                             P L A N N I N G
                                       C O M M I S S I O N
                                 S T A F F                        R E P O R T
                                                                   FOR COMMISSION COMMENT
                                                                                 MAY 7, 2012

489 Moraga Road
Conceptual Development Plan to allow 26-lot subdivision for detached
single family residences; (LC, RP/SBR)

I.     Project Basics
       A. Current Request:
          · Conceptual Development Plan, under Moraga Municipal Code (MMC) Section
            8.48.090

       B. Planning and Zoning Permits That Will Be Required:
          · General Plan Amendment from Rheem Park Specific Plan (with underlying
             Limited Commercial) to a new residential land use designation
          · Rezoning from LC ­ Limited Commercial to PD ­ Planned Development
          · General Development Plan, under MMC Section 8.48.110
          · Precise Development Plan, under MMC Section 8.48.120
          · Tentative Subdivision Map, under Subdivision Map Act
          · Grading Permit, under Title 14
          · Design Review, under MMC Section 8.72.060

       C. CEQA Determination: Project is subject to the California Environmental Quality Act
          (CEQA). Preliminary storm drainage and traffic analysis has been completed
          (Section V of this report and Attachments A and B). Staff requests the Planning
          Commission and Design Review Board provide guidance regarding appropriate level
          of environmental review: Focused Environmental Impact Report or Mitigated
          Negative Declaration.

       D. Parties Involved:
           · Applicant:          Signature Homes, Inc.; 4670 Willow Road, Pleasanton, CA
                                 94588-2710

           · Property Owner: First Mgmt. Co., Inc.; 4670 Willow Road, Pleasanton, CA
                             94588-2710




     329 Rheem Boulevard  Moraga, CA 94556  (925) 888-7040  planning@moraga.ca.us  www.moraga.ca.us
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD   489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                     Page 2 of 24


Figure 1: Vicinity Map
489 MORAGA ROAD                                 PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 3 of 24                                                                   May 7, 2012



Figure 2: Site Plan




Table 1: Land Use Information

Location              Existing Use               Zoning District   General Plan Designation
Subject Property      Vacant                     LC ­ Limited      Limited Commercial
                                                 Commercial
Surrounding   North   Office and self-storage    LC ­ Limited      Limited Commercial
Properties            facility                   Commercial
              South   Veterinary hospital        LC ­ Limited      Limited Commercial
                                                 Commercial
              East    Moraga Road                CC ­ Community    CC ­ Community Commercial
                      Rheem Valley   Shopping    Commercial
                      Center
              West    Residential                SFR-2 ­ Two       2-DUA
                                                 Dwelling Units
                                                 Per Acre
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                                                     489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                                                       Page 4 of 24




Table 2: Special Characteristics

 Characteristic                 Applies to           Explanation
                                Project?
 Rheem Park Specific            Y                    Moraga 2002 General Plan designates project site for Rheem
 Plan                                                Park Specific Plan. Prior to plan's preparation and adopting, 1990
                                                     General Plan designation of Limited Commercial applies.
 Lamorinda Action Plan          Y                    Project will generate more than ten (10) peak hour trips.
 Update                                              Therefore, cities of Lafayette and Orinda must be notified.
 Scenic Corridor                Y                    Moraga Road is a designated scenic corridor.
 C.3 Standards                  Y                    Project exceeds 10,000 sq. ft. of impervious surface, requiring
                                                     compliance with C.3 standards



Table 3: Project Chronology

 Date                     Action
 February 12, 2012        Application submitted
 March 23, 2012           Letter deeming application incomplete
 April 27, 2012           Public meeting notices mailed/posted
 May 7, 2012              Joint DRB/PC meeting
 N/A                      CEQA deadline1
 N/A                      PSA deadline2
1.   Negative declaration must be adopted within 180 days after application is deemed complete, EIR within 365 days (CEQA Guidelines,
     Article 8).
2.   Project must be approved or denied within 60 days after being deemed complete if exempt from CEQA, or 60 days after adoption of a
     negative declaration, or 180 days after adoption of an EIR (Govt. Code Section 65950).
489 MORAGA ROAD                                                       PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 5 of 24                                                                                         May 7, 2012



Table 4: Via Moraga Statistics

                                                Units Facing                Units Facing the              Units Facing `C,' `D,' or
 Location by frontage
                                                Moraga Road                 Bioswale                      `E' Street
 Dwelling Units                                 6                           4                             16
 Lot Area (sq. ft.)                             2,375 ­ 2,453               2,422 ­ 2,688                 2,030 ­ 2,159
 Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.)                     1,729                       1,729                         1,698 ­ 1,770
 Floor Area Ratio                               0.72 - 0.73                 0.64 - 0.72                   0.82 - 0.87

                            Maximum (ft.)       25' 7"                      25' 7"                        24' 3" ­ 27' 11"
 Building Height
                            Stories             2                           2                             2
                            Front               18' @ Moraga Road           11' 6" @ bioswale             4' 6'' @ street
                                                                            4' 6'' @ `C' & 'E'
 Building Setbacks          Rear                4' 6" @ `A' street                                        10' ­ 11'
                                                                            streets
 (ft.)
                            Left Side*          4'                          4'                            3.5'
                            Right Side*         4'                          4'                            3.5'
 Lot Coverage by building footprint
                                                39.7 - 41.0                 36.3 - 40.2                   53.0 ­ 49.9
 (%)
 Usable Open Space (sq. ft.)                    328 - 480                   300                           400 - 550

                                                2 covered spaces            2 covered spaces per          2 covered spaces per
 Resident Parking                               per unit                    unit                          unit

 Guest parking                                  12 spaces

 *
     One side yard at each property would have an easement allowing exclusive access to the adjacent neighbor property. The effect would
      be that each home would have access to a 7' or 8' sideyard on one side of the home and no sideyard on the opposite side.



II.      Project Setting

         A. Neighborhood/Area Description:
              The core of the Rheem Park neighborhood is a valley that trends north-south. The
              neighborhood is a mixed-use area with retail and commercial uses fronting on
              Moraga Road and Rheem Boulevard, and residential developments and open space
              on the up-hill fringes of the valley. The Moraga Storage and Office Center borders
              the site on the northern and eastern property lines, and the Rheem Veterinary
              Medical Hospital and a parking lot are adjacent to the south. Moraga Road frontages
              in the immediate vicinity of the project site feature large setbacks that create a green
              belt effect. For example, the storage center is set back 45' behind the Moraga Road
              sidewalk and the Veterinary hospital is 30' behind the sidewalk. Buildings at the
              Rheem Valley Shopping Center are set back 55' from Moraga Road.
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                    489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                      Page 6 of 24


    B. Site Conditions:
       The project site fronts on the east side of Moraga Road, across from the Rheem
       Valley Shopping Center, approximately 700 feet south of the Moraga Road/Rheem
       Boulevard intersection. The property is almost perfectly square, with 300 feet of
       frontage, and 283 feet of depth from the street. The site has no vegetation; over 90%
       of the surface area is impervious paving or gravel. The property is essentially flat,
       sloping at slightly less than 2% from its northeast to southwest corner.

    C. Background:
       The project site, formerly the bowling alley, is located in the Rheem Park Specific
       Plan area on the east side of Moraga Road. The Moraga 2002 General Plan contains
       policies requiring a specific plan. Until a specific plan is adopted, the General Plan
       states that 1990 General Plan land use designations apply to sites in the Rheem
       Park planning area; the 1990 General Plan designated this site Limited Commercial.

       The Planning Commission and Design Review Board held study sessions for the
       project site in January and July 2011 for two different projects:

       i   January 2011 project: 36 - 40 apartments and townhomes "to meet the housing
           needs of the local workforce and St. Mary's students, professors, visiting staff,
           etc." The conceptual site plan showed a potential land use option with a central
           core of housing, pool, spa, green space, etc. surrounded by housing fronting on
           the four property lines; and
       i   July 2011 project: 21 detached single family residences.

       For each project, the Commission and Board provided comments. Separately, staff
       received comments indicating that detached single-family residences would be
       inappropriate for the site and that residential development in this location should be
       developed at a higher density.

       Since that time, the Economic Development Action Committee (EDAC) held two
       visioning workshops in late August 2011 to solicit community input regarding the
       Rheem area. Participants suggested a mixture of uses, including residential at the
       project site, pedestrian orientation, community focal points in the area, and changes
       to Moraga Road. EDAC also presented recommendations to a joint Planning
       Commission ­ Town Council meeting November 30, 2011. Three recommendations
       pertain directly to developing the project site: amending the General Plan for the
       Rheem area, rather than a specific plan, to address community concerns and the
       current General Plan policy calling for a specific plan; revisiting the scenic corridor
       requirements for Moraga Road through the Rheem area; and creating a gateway and
       intersection improvements at the Moraga Road ­ Rheem Boulevard intersection.

       Following the workshops, Signature Properties began working with Town staff to
       develop a site plan that would best work for the project site. During these
       conversations, staff has encouraged higher density, discouraged detached single
       family residences, focused on pedestrian orientation, and downplayed significant
       setbacks from Moraga Road.
489 MORAGA ROAD                                PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 7 of 24                                                                  May 7, 2012



       Most recently, the Town submitted an application to the Association of Bay Area
       Governments (ABAG) to designate the Rheem planning area a Priority Development
       Area. The ABAG Executive Board conditionally approved the application, provided
       transit in the area improves to 20-minute headways (time between scheduled stops).
       The Town submitted the application to be eligible for future transportation and
       infrastructure funding through the One Bay Area Grant.

III. Project Description

    The applicant currently proposes subdividing the property and constructing 26 single-
    family detached homes. The subdivision would have the following characteristics:
    · Density: medium-density at 13 units per acre.
    · Configuration: The property would be subdivided into 26 house lots in clusters of
       three, four and six parcels, plus a 27th lot where a bioswale would be built.
    · Proposed access would be via a looped private driveway, with a 20-foot curb-to-curb
       driveway width.
    · A bioswale would be in the center of the loop.
    · Two of the three-lot clusters would front on Moraga Road.
    · Two 6-lot clusters would be created, one on the north side of the property, the other
       on the south side.
    · The two building clusters on Moraga Road would be 80 feet apart, separated by the
       entry road (street `A') and guest parking.
    · Each individual building on Moraga Road would be 8 feet apart.
    · Lot sizes would vary, ranging from 38' wide by 63' deep (2,394 square feet) to 33'
       wide by 62' deep (2,046 square feet).
    · The homes that are located internal to the project site would be oriented such that
       both the front doors and the garages would face the private loop street, with a private
       fenced rear yard.
    · The homes located adjacent to Moraga Road would be configured as follows:
           o Front doors would face Moraga Road and the garages would face the private
               loop street to the rear of the homes;
           o Outdoor private yard area for these homes would be located on the side of
               each house;
           o 18-foot wide landscape corridor would be included between the front of the
               homes and the back of the Moraga Road sidewalk.
    · A masonry wall is proposed along the south, west and east boundaries of the project
       to enhance privacy in the rear yards of the homes and provide a separation from the
       adjacent land uses
    · The proposed architectural style is Spanish. Proposed materials are stucco siding
       with wood and wrought iron trim and tile roofing. Second story projections are used
       to provide articulation along with distinctive window and door treatments.
    · A homeowners association would maintain the private loop road and front yard
       landscaping of each house.
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                                            489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                                              Page 8 of 24



IV. Community Discussion

         A public meeting notice for this meeting was prepared on April 27, 2012 and mailed to
         57 addresses (including property owners and neighboring organizations) in a 500'
         radius. The Town did not receive any letters in response to the recent public hearing
         notice at the time of the staff report.

V. Environmental Constraints

         The Town's environmental consultant, Amy Skewes-Cox, supervised the preliminary
         storm water management calculations by Baseline Environmental consultants
         (Attachment A) and a traffic assessment by Fehr & Peers (Attachment B).

         A. Stormwater. The stormwater analysis examines the proposed drainage plan for the
            project, including the bioretention basin (Attachment A). The study finds that the
            drainage plan is in general conformance with the requirements of the NPDES
            Municipal Regional Permit and the Contra Costa County Clean Water Program. The
            study lists additional data that will be required before the drainage plan could be
            given final approval, but no significant issues were found.

         B. Traffic. Fehr & Peers prepared a preliminary evaluation of the access and circulation
            requirements for the Via Moraga project (Attachment B). The study addresses
            current levels of service (LOS) at nearby signalized intersections (Moraga
            Road/Rheem Boulevard and Moraga Road/Ascot Drive) and unsignalized
            intersections (Moraga Road/Rheem Valley Driveway and Moraga Road/Center
            Street/Lucas Drive). Fehr & Peers assessed the impact of the project at 28 units1
            and a hypothetical project at 40 units. The preliminary traffic study makes the
            following findings:
            i The two signalized intersections operate at LOS C or better during the AM and
                 PM peak hours.
            i The unsignalized intersections operate at LOS A overall, but the side-street
                 movements operate poorly because drivers have to wait for gaps in the Moraga
                 Road traffic flow.
            i The Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga Road intersection operates at LOS A
                 overall, but westbound turns from the veterinary hospital operate at LOS E
                 during the morning peak hour. The westbound left-turn from the Rheem Valley
                 Shopping Center driveway operates at LOS E during the evening peak hour. The
                 intersection warrants a signal under the existing PM peak hour conditions.
            i The project would not change the level of service at the signalized intersections
                 under either the 28- or 40-unit scenarios. Delay in the side-street movements
                 would increase by less than 2 seconds. The Via Moraga driveway would operate
                 at LOS A overall, with the outbound movements averaging LOS C.
            i The project would generate increased pedestrian traffic, especially people
                 needing to cross Moraga Road to get to the Rheem Valley Shopping Center.
                 Because the nearest cross walks are 800 feet away, jay walking is likely, and
                 this would be a serious safety hazard on Moraga Road.
1
    At the time Fehr & Peers was retained, Signature Homes was proposing 28 units; the project was subsequently revised to
    26 homes.
489 MORAGA ROAD                                 PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 9 of 24                                                                   May 7, 2012




       The traffic report concludes by explaining options to serve pedestrian crossings:
        1. Signalize the Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga Road intersection and serve both
           the higher vehicle volumes at that driveway and all local pedestrian crossings at
           this intersection;
        2. Install a Pedestrian Hybrid Beacon (PHB) on Moraga Road, south of the Project
           driveway; or
        3. Install a Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon (RRFB) crossing on Moraga Road,
           south of the Project driveway.

                                 Environmental Constraints
                                      Discussion topics

            ·   The first stage in the formal project review process would be to
                prepare an Initial Study to identify potential environmental impacts
                and to determine the appropriate level of environmental review. Are
                there particular environmental issues you would like to see
                explored?
            ·   The traffic study has identified two types of pedestrian activated
                signals that could be used in lieu of traditional traffic lights. These
                signals haven't been used in Moraga; would you like more
                information on these options?


VI. General Plan Consistency

    As proposed, the project requires a General Plan Amendment because
       i Its land use designation is Rheem Park Area Specific Plan;
       i Until a specific plan is adopted, the 1990 General Plan land use designation
          "Limited Commercial" remains in effect; and
       i Residential uses are not allowed in the Limited Commercial area.

    A General Plan amendment could allow the Town to consider development in the
    Rheem Park area without first adopting a specific plan.

    The proposed project is, in many respects, consistent with the underlying reason for
    requiring a Rheem Park Area Specific Plan. The stated purpose for requiring a Rheem
    Park Specific Plan is to promote the redevelopment of the area as a community focal
    point and activity center with a mix of residential and commercial uses, focusing on
    under-utilized parcels and the need for a mix of housing types. Medium-density
    residential development on the bowling alley site could be consistent with this overall
    intent. The Via Moraga proposal is also generally consistent with land use policies that
    establish higher density residential designations, policy CD5.1 calling for higher
    densities near commercial centers, and Housing Element policies that call for a wide
    range of housing types.

    The 2002 General Plan contains the following policies that pertain to this proposal:
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                       489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                         Page 10 of 24



    1. Policy LU3.2 Rheem Park Area Specific Plan. Undertake a specific planning process
       for the area designated on the General Plan Diagram as the `Rheem Park Area
       Specific Plan,' coordinated as appropriate with the planning for the Moraga Center
       Area Specific Plan. Address the following issues through the specific plan process:
       a) Vision. Define a long-term vision for the area's development and redevelopment
           as a community focal point and activity center, defining specifically the area's role
           within the larger structure of the Town and its relation to the Moraga Center
           Specific Plan Area.
       b) Mix of Uses. Consider an appropriate mix of residential and commercial uses in
           addition to community facilities. Focus in particular on those parcels that are
           undeveloped, under-utilized, or subject to potential redevelopment.
       c) Housing. Explore appropriate locations and densities to achieve the Town's fair
           share of `Regional Housing Need' in keeping with the goals and policies of the
           Housing Element. Provide a mix of housing types that is fitting with Moraga's
           community character and responds to the needs of lower and moderate income
           households, the local workforce, seniors, and `empty- nesters.'
           (Partial quote; see General Plan Land Use Element for full text).

       Implementation Program B1 Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances. Revise the Town's
       Zoning Map, Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Ordinance, as needed, to maintain
       consistency with the adopted General Plan and, specifically, to achieve the following:
       ·  Incorporate the land use plans of the Moraga Center Area and Rheem Park Area
          Specific Plans, when completed. Until such time that the new Specific Plans are
          completed, the 1990 General Plan designations and existing zoning shall apply in
          the specific plan areas.

    Staff Analysis: Medium-density residential development would require a General Plan
    amendment and rezoning. However, a medium-density residential project would be
    generally in line with the intent of policy LU3.2, especially subsections a, b, and c
    (quoted above).

    Land Use policy LU3.2 could be amended to allow the Town to consider development
    proposals without first requiring a specific plan while maintaining the original intent of the
    policy. Suggested language to amend the policy is shown in Attachment C.
    Simultaneously, the Land Use Diagram could be amended to adopt a residential land
    use designation and zoning for 489 Moraga Road at an appropriate density.

    2. Guiding Principle 9: Encourage a mix of housing types to help meet the needs of
       different households and different levels of affordability.

       Policy 6.6­Rheem Park Area: Use the Rheem Park Area Specific Plan to create a
       community focal point and mixed-use activity center in the vicinity of the Rheem Park
       shopping center. Provide a land use and zoning plan, design theme and circulation
       system (traffic, pedestrian and bicycle) for the entire Rheem Park area, including the
       shopping center; existing and potential future `research and development' facilities;
       potential redevelopment of the bowling alley and old fire station sites; infill
       development opportunities; potential new residential development; and adjacent
       existing residential neighborhoods. Consider also the pathways between the Specific
       Plan Area and other Town facilities and attractions, including school facilities, Saint
489 MORAGA ROAD                                PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 11 of 24                                                                 May 7, 2012



       Mary's College, the proposed new golf course at Palos Colorados, Hacienda de las
       Flores, and the Moraga Center area" (emphasis added).

       Policy CD5.1-Location: Locate new multi-family developments in close proximity to
       commercial centers, transit stops, and community facilities such as parks and
       schools, with site design and landscaping to create buffers between adjacent uses
       while providing connection to pedestrian and bicycle paths.

       Policy LU3.3-Residential Densities in the Specific Plan Areas: Utilize the Specific
       Plan process to establish and map two new residential land use designations and
       provide adequate housing sites to meet the Town's Regional Housing Need. The two
       new residential designations shall be `Residential ­ 10 DUA' (with a maximum of
       12.5 units per acre through application of the 25-percent density bonus program) and
       `Residential ­ 16 DUA' (with a maximum of 20 units per acre through application of
       the 25-percent density bonus program).

    Staff Analysis: The above policies would support revising the Land Use Diagram,
    rezoning the project site, and allowing a medium-density residential use at 12.5 to 20
    dwellings per acre. The site is well suited to housing given its close proximity to
    services, the support it would lend to the Rheem Park Shopping Center, and its location
    on the main route to BART. Both the Land Use Element and the Housing Element
    describe the need for additional housing, including medium-density housing, which is in
    relatively limited supply in Moraga. The project is consistent with the community design
    goal since the property is centrally located and the proposed density, at 13 units per
    acre, is within the medium-density range. Further, CD5.1 suggests that if the property is
    to be residential, it should be designated for a medium-density given its proximity to the
    Rheem Valley Shopping Center. Again, while LU3.3 would not apply if the specific plan
    requirement were eliminated, the Town has the discretion to consider this policy in
    assessing General Plan intent. Designating the property at a medium-density from 12.5
    to 20 units per acre would be generally consistent with the intent of the Plan.
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                      489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                        Page 12 of 24



                                   General Plan Consistency
                                      Discussion Topics

             ·   Based on the analysis in this report, does it make sense to drop the
                 requirement to prepare a specific plan for the Rheem Park area?
             ·   Does medium-density housing seem appropriate for the Rheem Park
                 area given the language in General Plan policy LU3.2?
             ·   The General Plan does not mandate housing for the bowling alley
                 property. Are there other options that should be explored, or is it
                 appropriate to focus on housing for this property?
             ·   The proposed density ­ 13 units per acre ­ is higher than most
                 neighborhoods in Moraga. Is medium density appropriate for this
                 location? Would a higher or lower density be more appropriate? Would
                 you rather see a density range than a specific number of units per acre
                 in order to have flexibility in future decision making?
             ·   Would you need more information before you would be prepared to
                 consider amending the General Plan to allow residential development
                 at 489 Moraga Road? What would be helpful?
             ·   Would planned district zoning be appropriate at this site?



VII. Design Consistency

    Attachment D is an inventory and assessment of the Via Moraga project compared with
    the 172 standards in the Guidelines. Three sections of the Guidelines do not apply and
    are not in the inventory: ridgelines and hillsides, swimming pools, and commercial
    centers.

    The Design Guidelines are divided into subject areas, similar to the General Plan. On a
    broad level, the applicable subject areas are as follows:

    i   Maintain the Town's Semi-Rural Character (SRC): The guidelines in this series are
        intended to help preserve the semi-rural features that make Moraga unique when
        considering applications for development. They implement General Plan policy CD
        1.3, which says that a vital part of maintaining the community's semi-rural character
        is protecting viewsheds along the scenic corridors. While the project site does not
        include natural features such as hillsides, ridgelines, or mature native tree groupings,
        it is part of the Moraga Road scenic corridor viewshed. Accordingly, compliance with
        the semi-rural design guidelines at this site should focus on protecting the view shed.

    i   Enhance the Town's Scenic Corridors (SC): Protecting the area's natural scenic
        qualities is one of Moraga's highest-ranking community values. The Design
        Guidelines have seventeen criteria for assessing proposed developments that are
        visible from scenic corridors, including Moraga Road. As proposed, the Via Moraga
        project raises issues with six of the scenic corridor guidelines. The relatively narrow
        setback from Moraga Road will be noticeably different from setbacks on nearby
        properties, which will detract from the desired green belt effect. The proposed design
489 MORAGA ROAD                                    PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 13 of 24                                                                     May 7, 2012



        would not comply with guidelines in the Scenic Corridor Ordinance, including the
        direction to avoid a "walled" effect on Moraga Road.

    i   Minimize impacts of development: There are 31 guidelines in this series, which are
        aimed at avoiding or mitigating environmental impacts such as erosion, geologic
        hazards, and water pollution. The series begins with the following statement:
           To the extent possible, development should be concentrated in areas that are
           least sensitive in terms of environmental and visual resources, including: a)
           areas of flat or gently sloping topography outside of flood plain or natural
           drainage areas; b) the Moraga Center and Rheem Park area; c) Infill parcels
           in areas of existing developments.

        The project is consistent with the general intent of this series in that the site is flat,
        is not in a flood plain, and is an infill parcel in the Rheem Park area. However, the
        project would not comply with some of the more detailed guidelines that relate to
        the interior view of the project; these issues are discussed below.

    i   Thoughtfully Design Single-Family Residential Neighborhoods (SFR)
        There are 27 design guidelines for single-family neighborhoods, divided into 2
        categories: site planning and building design. The small lot areas, and the narrow
        front and side setbacks mean that the proposed design cannot comply with a number
        of the single-family guidelines.

    i   Thoughtfully Design Multi-Family Residential Developments: The proposed density
        for Via Moraga -- 13 units per acre ­ is typical for medium-density developments,
        and for this reason it is useful to evaluate the project against the multi-family design
        guidelines. There are 17 guidelines for multi-family residential addressing site
        planning and building design. The single-family housing type on individual lots results
        in a design that cannot comply with key multi-family guidelines. Compliance issues
        include potentially monotonous streetscapes, a lack of open space, inappropriate
        massing, and insufficient guest parking.

    While the entire project is subject to design review, at a conceptual level, there are three
    perspectives to address and assess the project's design, as follows:

    A. External Views. The following Design Guidelines relate to views of the project from
       off-site:

        a. Guideline SRC1: Retain, protect, and utilize existing natural features, such as
           trees and other vegetation, interesting ground forms, rocks, water, and significant
           views in the design.

           Guideline SC17: Viewsheds, including but not limited to close up and distant
           views, ridgelines, hillsides and mature native tree groupings should be protected
           along the Town's scenic corridors to retain the Town's semi-rural character.

        Staff Analysis: The project's relatively narrow setback from Moraga Road will tend to
        block the view of ridgelines to the northeast, especially as seen traveling north on
        Moraga Road. The dotted line in Figure 3, below, depicts the location of the
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                    489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                      Page 14 of 24



       ridgelines of the homes on parcels 1, 20, 21, and 22, that would front on Moraga
       Road. Parcels 2 and 3 would also front on Moraga Road, but the dotted line has not
       been extended to those parcels due to the technical limits of this graphic technique.
       The ridgelines would be 25' 7" above finished grade, on a line that would be parallel
       to and 33' behind the sidewalk.

       b. Guideline SRC2: The impact and presence of vehicles resulting from the
          development should be minimized through proper siting and screening in order to
          buffer parking areas from locations both interior and exterior to the site.

       Staff Analysis: As proposed, the project does not comply with this guideline. The
       parking could be relocated further away from Moraga Road and/or additional
       landscaping could screen parking areas.




                                             Figure 3
                                    Ridgelines on Moraga Road

       c. Guideline SC3: A greenbelt should be established between the scenic corridor
          major road and a parking area or building that is located adjacent to the road. The
          greenbelt must be landscaped and appear to be natural (i.e. a high percentage of
          the ground area could be a mounded redwood bark or stone covered area as
          long as plants provide a reasonable amount of massing to create a screening
          effect). All landscaped areas shall be appropriately irrigated to maintain healthy
          plants while preventing runoff from over watering.

       Staff Analysis: The proposed 18-foot wide landscaped area between the two-story
       residences presents an opportunity to develop a "natural" effect with native plantings,
       while the lawn areas and plantings nearer the homes would have a more "urban"
489 MORAGA ROAD                               PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 15 of 24                                                                May 7, 2012



       appearance. The amount of impervious surfaces, lawns and retention basins limit the
       amount of landscape massing that can be developed to provide the screening effect
       discussed in this guideline.

       In addition, the surrounding area's mix of landscaping and greenbelt provides context
       for this guideline. Buildings in the adjacent self-storage and office complex are
       approximately 45 feet behind the sidewalk; however, parking is located in a portion of
       the front setback. The 30-foot setback of the adjacent office building to the south is
       mostly unscreened parking area with dense tree planting immediately up against the
       building. Directly across from the project site, at the Rheem Park Shopping Center,
       buildings are set back at least 50 feet, and the landscaping is lawn and mature
       shade trees.

       The Via Moraga setback would be significantly narrower than the nearby greenbelt
       areas and is not fully consistent with the intent of scenic corridor guideline SC3.
       Fullest compliance with this guideline would be achieved with a larger setback, more
       similar in size to nearby properties.




                                           Figure 4
           Via Moraga site plan placed on an aerial photo to compare the proposed
                              setback with adjacent properties.


       4. Guideline SC5: The greenbelt separating a single-family residence from a scenic
          corridor roadway should have a minimum depth of 20 feet. This depth can be
          lessened if mitigated by shrubbery, trees and/or other acceptable elements or
          landscaping.
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                       489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                         Page 16 of 24



       Staff Analysis: The project proposes a density that is not typical for single family
       residences; however, the residences are detached single family, rather than
       attached. Consequently, the Planning Commission and Design Review Board should
       determine how and what setbacks and development standards apply. In this case,
       the 18-foot setbacks do not comply with the 20-foot setback, and the proposed
       landscaping and vegetation is not significant. In addition, as discussed in SC3 above,
       the surrounding corridor provides context for evaluating this standard. The DRB and
       Planning Commission would need to determine whether the proposed landscaping
       mitigates the less-than-minimum setback, or whether the setback should be more
       than the minimum.

       5. Guideline SC16: Design shall be consistent with the Moraga Municipal Code
          Section 8.132. The following are from the development guidelines for scenic
          corridors in Municipal Code Section 8.132:

          a. The design and location of each building and landscaping shall create a
             compatible visual relationship with surrounding development and with the
             natural terrain and vegetation. Road widths and road configurations should be
             considered as part of the design element.

          b. Buildings and landscaping shall be so located that each does not create a
             walled effect along the scenic corridor. Setbacks and building heights may be
             made more restrictive than otherwise permitted by the applicable zoning
             regulations. In general, the greater the mass or bulk, the greater the setback
             should be. The positioning of buildings shall be varied in order to create a
             complimentary relationship between mass and void.

          c. Each structure or feature reviewable under this chapter shall be limited to
             scale and siting to reduce visual dominance or obstruction of existing
             landforms, vegetation, water bodies and adjoining structures.

       Staff Analysis: The architectural style is similar to and compatible with the adjacent
       self-storage and office facility, which is a dominant feature in this part of the corridor.
       The landscaping is also generally compatible. The two-story building locations on the
       immediate road frontage provide a minimal setback, which is not consistent with
       adjacent and nearby properties. Given the massing of each individual building, their
       positioning of each at the identical front set back and the identical narrow separation
       between buildings, the overall effect would not provide the variation that would create
       a complimentary relationship between mass and void. The clusters would each have
       a pronounced wall effect.

       In Figure 5, below, the dotted line shows the location of the second story gutters (19'
       8" above grade) of the homes on parcels 1, 20, 21, and 22. The vertical lines are
       placed 18' behind the sidewalk. The homes fronting on Moraga Road would have a
       pronounced wall effect.
489 MORAGA ROAD                               PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 17 of 24                                                                May 7, 2012




                                          Figure 5
                           Front plane of homes on Moraga Road

    B. Interior Views. The following Design Guidelines apply to the project features that
       are viewed principally from inside the project boundaries.

       1. Guideline SRC3: Circulation systems should avoid conflict between vehicular,
          bicycle and pedestrian traffic. Emergency and service vehicle access shall be
          accommodated within the circulation system.

          Guideline ID13.7: Sidewalks, crosswalks, and landscaped multi-use trails shall be
          incorporated into new developments to encourage alternatives to automobile use.
          Connections shall be made to adjacent neighborhoods and, where feasible,
          commercial areas.

          Guideline MFR1.2: Storage yards, parking areas, service areas, and other
          ground-level paved areas should be screened from off-site views by perimeter
          and tree canopy planting.


       Staff Analysis: The 20-foot wide internal private roadway is relatively narrow, which
       tends to slow vehicular traffic. However, the project does not propose sidewalks or
       other pedestrian facilities, which may raise internal, neighborhood conflicts between
       vehicles, pedestrians and bicycles. In addition, to comply with General Plan policies
       and Design Guidelines, external, off-site pedestrian connections may be necessary,
       particularly to provide and encourage pedestrian access from the project site to the
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                     489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                       Page 18 of 24



       nearby commercial area. Finally, the design of garage-dominated frontages that
       focus on the automobile could inherently present conflicts between vehicles,
       pedestrians and bicyclists.

       2. Guideline ID4: Buildings should be placed on the site so as to permit passive
          solar design, ample room for usable yard areas, adequate landscaping, and
          proper drainage between and around buildings.

       Staff Analysis: The proposed building placement does not focus on southern,
       passive solar design and provides minimal space for usable yards and landscaping.

       3. Guideline ID9.1: Impervious surfaces shall be minimized through site design and
          building methods. Directly connected impervious surfaces shall be minimized to
          avoid excessive concentrated stormwater runoff. Any runoff from impervious
          surfaces shall be directed to pervious areas or landscaped depressions.

          Guideline ID9.2: Impervious paving may be reduced by using permeable
          materials for pedestrian walkways, parking facilities, and areas with light traffic.
          Examples include:
          i Unit pavers-on-sand: turfblock, brick, natural stone, or concrete unit pavers
          i Poured pervious surfaces: pervious concrete or pervious asphalt
          i Granular materials: crushed shells, gravel, aggregate base, cobbles, or wood
            mulch.

       Staff Analysis: While complying with C.3 standards for storm drainage, the project
       does propose a significant amount of impervious surfaces for roadways and
       buildings. Pervious pavers would be limited to portions of street "A" and "B" and the
       guest parking spaces at street "A". Further, under the proposed design the amount of
       impervious surface will likely increase as owners add patios to their private yards. A
       different subdivision layout could reduce the amount of impervious surface.

       4. Guideline ID12.1: All residential buildings, in aggregate, may cover no more than
          33% of the lot area. Exceptions may be considered for cluster and multi-family
          residential projects. For project designs that cluster the new structures on only a
          small portion of a large site, the percentage may be calculated using the entire
          site, rather than the lot size.

       Staff Analysis: The residential buildings cover from 36.3% to 53% of the aggregate
       lot area. The project could be treated as a cluster or multi-family project based on its
       density and the small lot sizes. If this approach was taken, the project could be
       granted an exception to this guideline.

       5. Guideline ID13.2: The color schemes of homes on adjacent lots within 200 feet of
          one another should be compatible with and not duplicate one another.

          Guideline SFR2.2: The color schemes of homes on adjacent lots should be
          compatible and not duplicate one another.
489 MORAGA ROAD                                  PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 19 of 24                                                                   May 7, 2012



       Staff Analysis: Colors have not been proposed at this time. However, the Spanish
       architectural style typically calls for a limited range of colors. If adjacent buildings do
       not actually duplicate each other, they are likely to be close to the same color, given
       the architectural style. In addition, the proposed colors would likely mirror the colors
       of buildings on adjoining lots.

       6. Guideline ID13.12: The same or similar elevations should not be placed within
          300 feet of each other along the street without altering the direction of the roof.

       Staff Analysis: The project proposes a neighborhood of similar houses, with slight
       variations in front elevations and little to no variations in roof or ridge direction. For
       example, on streets `C' and `E' house models 2 and 3 alternate with each other,
       putting the same models within 50 feet of each other (Figure 6). Although models 2
       and 3 each have two versions that alter the rooflines, they are nevertheless quite
       similar. In addition, as a whole, the project design would result in garage doors
       predominating the street level elevations. The overall effect is monotonous.




                                           Figure 6
                               Homes on the north side of street 'E'

       7. Guideline SFR1.1: Not more than two (2) two-story units should be placed side-
          by-side unless topographic and/or architectural considerations justify exceptions
          or unless the two-story portion of the house is not visible from off site.
          (Architectural considerations may include partial second stories and setback of
          second stories.)

          Guideline SFR1.2: Front setbacks should be varied, with no more than two
          adjacent units having the same setback. Setback variation shall be a minimum of
          three feet.

          Guideline MFR2.6: Large building masses should be avoided.

       Staff Assessment: As a detached single family residential project of two-story
       structures, the project would not comply with the guidelines limiting two-story
       residences or requiring varied setbacks. Similarly, the lack of variation does not meet
       the multiple family project guideline for avoiding large building masses. As discussed
       earlier in the report, the project represents a hybrid with its higher density and
       proximity to a commercial center. Staff suggests the Planning Commission and
       Design Review Board discuss the applicability of these guidelines and provide
       direction to the applicant and staff. If the overall density of the project increases, the
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                      489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                        Page 20 of 24



       two-story guideline and setback variation may not apply, but the massing guideline
       would apply. If the overall density decreases, the project could be re-designed to
       include a combination of one- and two-story elements. A variety in height could add
       architectural interest and variety to the site and decrease the buildings' apparent
       mass. A variation of setbacks, together with a variation in the number of stories, front
       elevations, and roof orientation, would provide the necessary variety to meet this
       guideline and result in a compact street elevation.

       8. Guideline SFR1.5: The architectural design motif should continue on all sides of a
          building. This motif should be compatible with but distinct from adjacent homes.

          Guideline SFR2.3: Exterior building design on all elevations should be
          coordinated with regard to color, texture, materials, finishes and architectural form
          and detailing to achieve design harmony and continuity.

       Staff Assessment: For the most part, the Spanish architectural motif continues on all
       sides of the buildings. However the architectural style is largely identical on all of the
       proposed residences. Consequently, rather than "harmony and continuity," the
       overall design projects a "sameness," in that texture, materials, finishes, architectural
       form, and, likely color, are almost the same from building-to-building.

       9. Guideline SFR1.11: There should be a near level area of at least 25' x 40', other
          than the front yard, for usable yard area.

       Staff Assessment: The proposed private yard areas area of approximately 360 sq. ft.
       would not comply with this guideline.

       10. Guideline SFR2.6: The side yard setback shall be no less than the minimum
           permitted by the Zoning Ordinance and shall be increased by one additional foot
           for each foot of end wall height greater than 20 feet. End wall height is the
           maximum vertical height from finished grade to outer roof surface at the side
           yard. Chimneys, dormers, and other architectural elements are excepted from
           this limitation. The skirt wall is counted as part of the height measurement.

          In any individual case, the Planning Commission or the Design Review Board
          may require a larger side yard, provided they can make appropriate findings
          relating to the following types of conditions:
            a. Major ridgeline (as defined by the General Plan);
            b. Scenic corridor;
            c. General Plan land use or zoning designation;
            d. Proposed use of structure, in relation to surrounding uses;
            e. Visibility of structure(s) from off site, due to placement (or absence) of
               permanent screening;
            f. Elevation of the lot, compared with the elevation(s) of abutting street(s)
               and/or other properties;
            g. Infill lot or a lot adjacent to an established subdivision;
            h. Slope or grade of lot, in relation to abutting streets.
489 MORAGA ROAD                                  PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 21 of 24                                                                   May 7, 2012



        Staff Assessment: Currently, the zoning ordinance does not provide a district that
        would support the density proposed for this project. Accordingly, the ordinance does
        not specify a setback for the proposed density. A larger side yard setback would
        likely require reducing either the number or the size of units.

        11. Guideline MFR1.1: A harmonious design relationship should be achieved
            between existing and proposed adjoining developments by avoiding both
            excessive variety and monotonous repetition.

        Staff Assessment: The proposed project's Spanish design is compatible with, and
        similar to, styling at the adjacent properties to the north and east. However, within
        the project site, the consistency of materials, forms, and likely, colors present as
        sameness and will tend to be monotonous. The Design Review Board and Planning
        Commission may want to discuss this issue with regards to external and internal
        architectural harmony and repetition.

        12. Guideline MFR1.6: Multi-family housing developments shall provide adequate
            parking for residents and visitors. Parking lots shall be designed to make efficient
            use of space. Parking lot locations at the side or rear are encouraged.

        Staff Assessment: The proposed parking is located near Moraga Road, at the front of
        the project site. In addition, on the project site itself, parking will dominate the site
        through garages. In terms of parking adequacy, one additional space would be
        necessary for guest parking. The private streets will not accommodate parking;
        therefore, when more than 2 or 3 households have visitors, such as during holidays,
        the site may not have adequate guest parking.

        13. Guideline MFR1.8: Private and shared outdoor open space shall be provided for
            residents in new multi- family residential developments. This outdoor space
            should accommodate play areas for children and pets, picnic and barbeque
            facilities, and a visually appealing environment.

        Staff Assessment: The project proposes one landscaped area in the middle of the
        development. However, it would be designed as a bioretention facility, not as usable
        open space. The Planning Commission and Design Review Board may want to
        discuss the applicability of this guideline. If applicable, the center landscaped area
        could be designed and landscaped to achieve C.3 stormwater objectives and shared
        open space with amenities. This would likely entail a change in density.

VII. Design Conclusion/Summary

    The planning concept underlying the Via Moraga project offers a housing option: single-
    family detached homes at a medium-density range. Significant potential benefits of this
    approach include, but are not limited to, the following:

    ·   Location. Aggregating residential density at this site would give future residents
        walking access to commercial services and promote economic development at the
        Rheem Valley Shopping Center. The site is on a main commuter route to BART.
        These factors make the property well suited for medium-density housing.
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                       489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                         Page 22 of 24


    ·    Resource conservation. The small lot size, from 2,030 to 2,453 square feet,
         conserves resources, mitigates environmental impacts, reduces purchase and
         maintenance costs for the buyer, and saves on service costs for the Town.
    ·    Housing opportunity. The floor plans -- 1,698 to 1,770 square feet -- would be an
         attractive housing option for young families and empty nesters.
    ·    Architecture. The architecture, especially for the homes fronting on Moraga Road,
         is attractive, and the style is sensitive to neighboring properties.
    ·    Sideyards. While the space between the homes would be divided from front to back
         with a property line, a sideyard easement would be provided on one side of each
         home to allow use of the entire space. In practical terms, each home would have a
         single sideyard that would allow the easement holder to have access to the entire
         space between the buildings.

    While the proposed project offers benefits, it also presents significant design issues that
    would detract from the quality of life in this new neighborhood, and would be a lost
    opportunity for the community, including the following:

  A. External view issues

     The most significant issues as the project would be seen from outside the
     neighborhood would be the following:
     · Setbacks. Development on adjacent properties to the north and south, and across
         Moraga Road, are 30 to 50 feet behind the sidewalk, consistent with policies in the
         General Plan and Design Guidelines that call for a greenbelt on the Moraga Road
         scenic corridor. Placing six buildings on Moraga Road much closer to the sidewalk
         than neighboring buildings to the north and south will make the Via Moraga homes
         "stick out" from the adjacent buildings, literally and figuratively.
     · Massing and Wall Effect. The narrow separation between the buildings, the lack
         of step backs at the second story, the uniform setbacks, and the relatively close
         proximity to the street increase the apparent massing on the Moraga Road
         frontage.
     · View blockage. Most Moraga residents and visitors would experience Via Moraga
         traveling on Moraga Road. Contrary to the Town's General Plan and scenic
         corridor standards, homes on the Moraga Road frontage would block hillside and
         ridgeline      views,    especially      for
         northbound vehicles.
     · Monotony. The lack of variation among
         the six buildings on Moraga Road will
         have a monotonous effect.
  B. Internal View Issues

        The most attractive feature as seen from
        inside the neighborhood would be the
        bioretention basin in the center of the project
        (Figure 6). However, while this would give
        the residents on parcels 23, 24, 25, and 26
        welcoming front entries, the nature of the
        basin would render the space unusable. In
        addition, the site's design would not provide
                                                                         Figure 7
                                                          Homes 23 -26 face the bioretenton basin
489 MORAGA ROAD                                  PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 23 of 24                                                                   May 7, 2012



      a benefit to the other residences in the new neighborhood. Specific design issues
      adversely affecting the interior of the project include the following:

  ·   No Common open space. As a rule of thumb, medium-density projects should have
      shared open space. The bioretention basin is valuable visual open space, but it would
      not be accessible, and it would be perceived as private space belonging to the four
      homes fronting on the basin. The proposed design does not provide any common
      open space where adults could relax and kids could play.
  ·   Dominated by hardscape. Asphalt street, concrete driveway aprons, and two-story
      stucco homes would dominate the 28-foot wide space between facing buildings on the
      internal street. The landscape planters in front of the homes are necessarily minimal
      because the buildings are only 4' 6" from the street. The effect would tend to be sterile
      and uninviting.
  ·   Building massing. All of the buildings are two-stories and set back 4' 6" from the
      street. The design features second story articulation with projections and insets, but
      the floor plans do not allow for the second story step-backs that are needed to reduce
      the apparent massing. The buildings will appear to loom over the street.
  ·   Pedestrians. As designed, the project is not pedestrian friendly. The proposed
      subdivision does not have sidewalks or other pedestrian pathways. Pedestrians and
      bike riders would have to share the 20-foot wide private street with cars.
  ·   Sense of entry. The front entries on most of the homes would
      be in the sideyard, mid-way toward the rear of the lot (Figure
      8). This, combined with the small amount of space available
      for landscaping at the front of the parcels, would not present a                     Front door
      welcoming or attractive entry.
  ·   The street at eye-level. The dominant feature at the street
      level in most of the neighborhood would be garage doors. For
      example, the combined width of parcels 14 through 17 (north
      side of Street "E," simulated in Figure 4 on page 19 above)
      would be 130' long. Within this frontage, 72' would consist of
      garage doors. The space available to soften this view with
      landscaping would be minimal. The view at eye-level would be
      sterile and monotonous.
  ·   No sense of place. The street would be the one accessible
      common area of the neighborhood but it would not be an
      inviting gathering place. The dominant architectural feature
      would be garage doors, and a closed-in feeling resulting from               Figure 8
      the two-story buildings that would face each other across the Homes on the north side of
      street, 28 feet apart. The street would be distinctly pedestrian           street "E"
      unfriendly, lacking separated pathways for walker and
      bicyclists. The space for landscaping would be minimal, and the streetscape would be
      sterile. As a result, residents would tend to confine themselves to their fenced private
      yards. The neighborhood would not be inviting; it would not have a sense of place.

  C. Potential Solutions

      One approach to designing medium-density detached housing that bypasses the
      issues discussed above is shown in Figures 9 and 10 on the following pages. These
      examples are taken from the book Pocket Neighborhoods by Ross Chapin. The
PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD                                 489 MORAGA ROAD
May 7, 2012                                                                   Page 24 of 24



     examples are existing neighborhoods in the Seattle area. The homes in these
     examples are single story and relatively small , but the densities, are comparable to
     the 13 units per acre proposed for Via Moraga. These examples feature small lots,
     similar to Via Moraga, but offer shared open space, trails, and less hardscape.
489 MORAGA ROAD                                  PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 25 of 1                                                                    May 7, 2012




                          Figure 9                                                      Figure 10
                    Erickson Cottages                                           Greenwood Avenue Cottages
            ·     Site size: 39,772 SF                                           · Site size: 34,755 SF
            ·     DU/acre: 12                                                    · DU/acre: 10
            ·     Number of homes: 11                                            · Number of homes: 8
            ·     Square footage: 1,049 ­ 1,090                                  · Square footage: 768 ­ 998 SF




                  329 Rheem Boulevard  Moraga, CA 94556  (925) 888-7040  planning@moraga.ca.us  www.moraga.ca.us
489 MORAGA ROAD                                   PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 26 of 2                                                                     May 7, 2012

  Could Via Moraga be modified to a
  pattern similar to the preceding
  examples? Figure 11 at the right is a
  capacity study of a 300' x 300' parcel
  (the approximate dimensions of the
  bowling alley site) with 26 lots, each at a
  scaled dimension of 33' x 62', the size of
  most of the lots proposed for Via
  Moraga. This drawing is not meant to be
  a design per se; the intention is to
  measure the holding capacity of the
  property. This study provides 64 parking
  spaces in two lots, the parking ratio
  required by the Zoning Ordinance for
  single-family homes. The principal
  change from the Via Moraga proposal is
  that this study assumes that none of the
  homes would have garages, similar to
  the examples on the preceding page. By
  replacing the street with parking lots it is                  Figure 11
  possible to site homes so they front on         Bowling alley property capacity study
  pathways and common open space.

  This study suggests other design options as well. For example, if the garages were
  eliminated, the homes could be 400 square feet smaller (the approximate size of a two-car
  garage) without reducing the actual living space. This saved space could be used as
  additional private open space on the individual lots, or the lots could each be reduced by
  400 square feet, and the "saved" land could be added to the common area.

  Other options for dealing with the issues raised in this critique include reducing the number
  of units, making some of the units and parcels smaller, or eliminating some of the single-
  family detached units and replacing them with smaller attached units. Each of these
  options would allow more flexibility in the overall site plan.

  In conclusion, a medium-density residential project would be very appropriate for this site.
  However, it would difficult to accommodate a well-designed single-family detached project
  at 13 units per acre that would fully comply with the Design Guidelines.




  329 Rheem Boulevard  Moraga, CA 94556  (925) 888-7040  planning@moraga.ca.us  www.moraga.ca.us
489 MORAGA ROAD                                     PLANNING COMMISSION/DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Page 27 of 2                                                                       May 7, 2012



                                         Design Analysis
                                         Discussion topics

         Staff suggests that Commissioners and Board members discuss their
         general reactions to the proposed design for this project. Issues you may
         want to discuss include --
            · What do you like or dislike about the project architecture?
            · Is enough open space in this project?
            · Is the internal circulation system adequate?
            · Please discuss your first impressions of the internal streetscape. Do
                you share the concerns about the streetscape that are discussed in
                the design analysis?
            · Are the scenic corridor guidelines appropriate for this section of
                Moraga Road?
            · What modifications would you recommend to bring the project
                closer to compliance with the Design Guidelines?


VI. Recommendation
        The applicant will make a brief presentation, and staff and the consultants will give an
        oral summary of major points in this staff report. Staff recommends that the
        Commission and Board comment on the suggested discussion points shown in green
        boxes in this report.


Attachments:

A.   Drainage report by Baseline
B.   Traffic report by Fehr & Peers
C.   Suggested revision to General Plan policy LU3.2
D.   Design Guidelines Inventory and Analysis

Staff Planner: Bob Pendoley, planning@moraga.ca.us, (925) 888-7040
ATTACHMENT A
DRAINAGE REPORT BY
     BASELINE
                                       MEMORANDUM


Date:       16 April 2012                                                     Job No.: 12204-00

To:         Amy Skewes-Cox

From:       Bruce Abelli-Amen and Monika Krupa, BASELINE

Subject: Preliminary Review of Planning-Level Stormwater Management Calculations, Via
         Moraga Subdivision Project, Moraga Road


At your request, we have reviewed the Preliminary Stormwater Control Plan ("SWCP") diagram
and the NPDES C.3 calculations provided to us by email on 3 April 2012 and 10 April 2012,
respectively for the Via Moraga Subdivision Project. These documents are included as
Attachment A. Our scope of work was defined as follows:

        Review the applicant's stormwater management plan and evaluate the methodology used
        to develop the plan. BASELINE will provide feedback on whether the plan, as presented,
        meets the general requirements of the NPDES Municipal Regional Permit.

While the SWCP diagram and C.3 calculation documents provided to us do not constitute a
complete SWCP, the site layout and Integrated Management Practices ("IMP") appear to be in
general conformance with the requirements of the NPDES Municipal Regional Permit and the
Contra Costa County Clean Water Program methodology for sizing IMPs. We have the
following comments and recommendations:

         The existing site is over 90 percent impervious cover (i.e., pavement, degraded pavement,
         and highly compacted soils). Based on this existing condition, we concur that the
         proposed project would not likely result in an increase in impervious area, and therefore
         flow control would not be required. For this reason, we did not review the flow control
         calculations. We reviewed the treatment-only calculations and found that the Drainage
         Management Area ("DMA") runoff factors, IMP sizing factors, and rain adjustment
         factors used in the treatment-only calculations were correct, and resulted in accurate
         minimum area estimates for the IMPs.
         The DMA delineations and areas differed slightly between the SWCP diagram and the
         calculations. We assumed that the SWCP diagram had the most up-to-date information
         and relied upon those for our review. The values presented in the SWCP diagram table
         indicate that treatment-only calculations were used in the SWCP design (and as indicated
         above, we concur with this approach).
         The documents provided did not indicate whether a Harvesting and Reuse Feasibility
         Determination has been completed. This process and determination is required for the
         County to approve the SWCP (Municipal Regional Permit Provision C.3.c.i.(2)(b);
Memorandum
16 April 2012
Page 2
         Chapter 4 of the Contra Costa County Clean Water Program C.3 Guidebook). If it is
         determined that harvesting and reuse of stormwater is feasible at the site, this could result
         in substantial changes to the site layout.
         It is not clear whether the DMAs in the SWCP include or exclude IMP Areas. The
         wording of the C.3 Guidebook (page 54) implies that IMP areas should not be included in
         DMAs. The IMP Calculator provided by Contra Costa County calculates the Total
         Project Area as the sum of DMA and IMP areas, also implying that IMP areas should not
         be included in DMAs. The SWCP should clearly indicate whether IMP areas are
         included or excluded from the DMAs.
         DMAs A, C, and D in the SWCP include both pervious and impervious surfaces. The
         C.3 Guidebook (page 48) states that "Where possible, design site drainage so only
         impervious roof and pavement drain to IMPs...If it is necessary to include [pervious
         areas] within the area draining to an IMP, list each surface as a separate DMA." This is
         reiterated in the SWCP Checklist (page 24 of C.3 Guidebook), which states that "Each
         DMA has one surface type (roof, paving, or landscape)...". This requirement does not
         change the results of the treatment-only IMP area calculations, but does indicate that
         further subdivision of the DMAs in the SWCP figure and table may be required.
         The Hydrologic Soil Group(s) at the project area are not clearly identified. The
         Bioretention Area diagram in the SWCP diagram indicates a "Native Hydrologic Type B
         Soil", while the factors used in the flow-control calculations indicate that a Type C soil
         was assumed. We found that the soils in the project area are classified as Type D on the
         Natural Resources Conservation Service Web Soil Survey website. The soil type
         designation does not affect the results of the treatment-only calculations for this project,
         but the C.3 Guidebook (Chapter 4) requires soil type to be specified in the SWCP.
         Groundwater levels are not identified. Our review of groundwater levels at nearby sites
         using GeoTracker information from the State Water Resources Control Board shows
         depth to groundwater ranging from 4 to 24 feet. High groundwater levels may impact the
         Harvesting and Reuse Feasibility Determination and the appropriateness of the use of
         bioretention as an IMP (Table 4-1 in C.3 Guidebook).
         The calculations used a mean annual precipitation of 24.8 inches (the source was not
         identified). Based on the isohyetal maps cited in the C.3 Guidebook, we estimate that the
         mean annual rainfall at the project site is 28.5 inches. If 24.8 inches were used in the final
         SWCP, the source should be identified and the discrepancy with the C.3 Guidebook maps
         explained.
         In the SWCP diagram table, the required landscape based treatment area for DMA B
         should be zero, not 227 square feet, as this is a self-treating area.

Should you have any question, please do not hesitate to contact us.
BAA/MK:km
Attachments


12204-00.01866 Memo.v1-4/16/12
            ATTACHMENT


PRELIMINARY STORMWATER CALCULATIONS
ATTACHMENT B
TRAFFIC REPORT BY
  FEHR & PEERS
April 25, 2012



Ms. Amy Skewes-Cox
P.O. Box 422
Ross, CA 94597

Subject:           Preliminary Access and Circulation Assessment for the Via Moraga Project

Dear Ms. Skewes-Cox:

This report summarizes Fehr & Peers' preliminary evaluation of the access and circulation
requirements for the Via Moraga Project. The evaluation was undertaken to provide early input to
the Project planning team on the following topics:

            Current vehicle, bicycle and pedestrian volumes on Moraga Road at the Project access
            location and at near-by intersections and driveways;
            Current levels of service (LOS) at the adjacent signalized intersections (Moraga
            Road/Rheem Boulevard and Moraga Road/Ascot Drive) and unsignalized intersections
            (Moraga Road/Rheem Valley Driveway and Moraga Road/Center Street/Lucas Drive);
            Impact of project traffic at the adjacent intersections and operation of the Project access
            intersection; and
            Potential design options for the access intersection, to address auto, bicycle and
            pedestrian circulation needs.

The remainder of this report is divided into the following sections:

     I.         EXISTING ROADWAY NETWORK, VOLUMES AND LOS
     II.        PROJECT TRIP GENERATION, DISTRIBUTION AND ASSIGNMENT
     III.       PROJECT IMPACTS AT ADJACENT INTERSECTIONS
     IV.        PROJECT ACCESS INTERSECTION DESIGN OPTIONS

I.          EXISTING ROADWAY NETWORK, VOLUMES AND LOS

The Project site is located on the east side of Moraga Road, between Rheem Boulevard and Lucas
Drive. Adjacent land uses include the Rheem Valley Shopping Mall to the west, storage facilities to
the north and east, and a veterinarian hospital to the south. Figure 1 illustrates the study area.
(All figures are attached at the end of this report). The Rheem Valley Shopping Mall, a high
generating destination, is located west of Moraga Road with access driveways on Rheem
Boulevard and Moraga Road. Regional access to the study area is provided by State Route 24
(SR-24), which connects Moraga to Walnut Creek to the east and Oakland via the Caldecott
Tunnel to the west.



            100 Pringle Avenue | Suite 600 | Walnut Creek, CA 94596 | (925) 930-7100 | Fax (925) 933-7090
                                               www.fehrandpeers.com
Ms. Amy Skewes-Cox
April 25, 2012
Page 2 of 9




Pedestrian facilities near the project site include sidewalks on both sides of Moraga Road, and
protected crosswalks at the signalized intersections of Moraga Road/Rheem Boulevard and
Moraga Road/Ascot Drive. An additional unprotected crosswalk across Moraga Road is provided
at the side-street stop-controlled intersection at Center Street/Lucas Drive.

The Town of Moraga identifies three types of bicycle facilities:

            Bicycle Paths (Class I) ­ Paved trails that are separated from roadways;
            Bicycle Lanes (Class II) ­ Lanes on roadways designated for use by bicycles through
            striping, pavement legends and signs;
            Bicycle Routes (Class III) ­ Designated roadways for bicycle use by signs only; may or may
            not include additional pavement width for cyclists.

Both Moraga Road and Rheem Boulevard are classified as Class III bicycle routes.

The Central Contra Costa County Transit Authority (CCCTA, County Connection) provides transit
service in the Town of Moraga and neighboring communities. The County Connection provides
one route, Route 6, along Moraga Road adjacent to the Project site. The route provides access to
the Orinda and Lafayette Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) stations. Northbound and southbound
stops are located very close to the Project site.

Vehicle turning movement, pedestrian and bicycle counts were collected during the weekday AM
(7:00 AM to 9:00 AM) and PM (4:00 PM to 6:00 PM) peak periods on Tuesday, April 17, 2012, at
the study intersections listed below:

       1.   Rheem Boulevard /Moraga Road
                                                                                  1
       3.   Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga Road / Veterinary Driveways
       4.   Center Street/Lucas Drive/Moraga Road
       5.   Ascot Drive/Moraga Road

Figure 1 shows the peak hour vehicle turning movements. The counts indicate that the peak
hours in the study area are 7:30 ­ 8:30 AM and 5:00 ­ 6:00 PM. The total traffic volume on
Moraga Road is about 1,450 vehicles in the AM peak hour and 1,550 vehicles in the PM peak
hour. Pedestrian and bicycle volumes are low to moderate in the study area; the counts
indicated less than 10 pedestrian crossings per hour at the various crosswalks, and bicycle
volumes ranged from 25 to 35 peak hour movements at the intersections. Appendix A contains
the count sheets.




1
    Intersection no. 2 is the future Project driveway; thus, existing counts were not taken at this location.
Ms. Amy Skewes-Cox
April 25, 2012
Page 3 of 9




Intersection operations were evaluated for the weekday AM and PM peak hours using the Level
of Service (LOS) methodology outlined in the Transportation Research Board's 2000 Highway
Capacity Manual (HCM). The analysis is based on the volumes, lane configurations and traffic
controls shown on Figure 1. Existing levels of service are summarized in Table 1.


                                                      TABLE 1
                                                                       1
                                            EXISTING LEVELS OF SERVICE

                                                                       2                                3
                    Intersection                            Control        Peak Hour           Delay                LOS

                                                                                AM               32.7                C
1. Rheem Boulevard/Moraga Road                                Signal
                                                                                PM               31.0                C


2. Project Driveway/Moraga Road                                                   Future Intersection

3. Rheem Valley Driveway/                                                       AM           1.4 (42.9)            A (E)
                                                              SSSC
Moraga Road                                                                     PM           5.3 (37.7)            A (E)

                                                                                AM           1.5 (70.3)            A (F)
4. Center Street/Lucas Drive/Moraga Road                      SSSC
                                                                                PM           2.2 (76.5)            A (F)

                                                                                AM               13.4                B
5. Ascot Drive/Moraga Road                                    Signal
                                                                                PM               10.2                B

Notes:
1. Traffic operations results include delay (seconds per vehicle) and LOS (level of service). LOS is based on delay thresholds
published in the Highway Capacity Manual (Transportation Research Board, 2000).
1. Signal = signalized intersection, SSSC = side-street stop controlled intersection
2. For side-street stop controlled intersections, average delay is listed first followed by the delay for the worst approach
Fehr & Peers, April 2012


As shown in Table 1, the two signalized intersections operate at LOS C or better during the AM
and PM peak hours, indicating acceptable operations with minimal delays. The unsignalized
intersections operate at LOS A overall, but the side-street movements operate poorly due to long
delays for drivers waiting for gaps in the Moraga Road traffic flow. In particular:

          At Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga Road, the westbound turns from the veterinary
          hospital and vacant building driveway operate at LOS E during the AM peak hour, and the
          westbound left-turn from the Rheem Valley Driveway operates at LOS E during the PM
          peak hour; and
          At Center Street/Lucas Drive/Moraga Road, the westbound turns from Lucas Drive
          operate at LOS F during both the AM and PM peak hours.

Detailed LOS calculations are provided in Appendix B.
Ms. Amy Skewes-Cox
April 25, 2012
Page 4 of 9




The two unsignalized intersections were checked against the peak hour signal warrant #3 in the
California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD), and it was determined that the
Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga Road intersection warrants a signal under PM peak hour
conditions. This is discussed further in Section III.

II.       PROJECT DESCRIPTION, TRIP GENERATION, DISTRIBUTION AND ASSIGNMENT

The proposed Project would construct 28 two-story single family detached homes on a vacant
1.98 acre parcel, located on the east side of Moraga Road. The homes will range from 1,608 to
1,730 square feet and include 3 or 4 bedrooms, a two car garage and front and rear yards. Full
site access would be provided on Moraga Road via a single driveway connecting to an internal
loop access road. The Project site plan is included in Appendix C.

Trip generation refers to the process of estimating the amount of vehicular traffic a project would
add to the surrounding roadway system. Estimates are created for the peak one-hour periods
during the morning and evening commute periods when traffic volumes on the adjacent streets
are highest. The Project trip generation was estimated using rates in the Institute of
                                               th
Transportation Engineers Trip Generation (8 Edition) land use number 210 (single family
detached housing). For this study, trip generation was calculated for the proposed Project of 28
single family detached homes, as well as for a high-end scenario of 40 homes, for informational
purposes. The resulting trip generation estimates are shown in Table 2.


                                                   TABLE 2
                                                                       1
                                     PROJECT TRIP GENERATION ESTIMATES


                                                            AM Peak Hour                           PM Peak Hour
                               ITE
       Land Use                          Units
                              Code
                                                      In          Out          Total          In          Out         Total


Single Family
                               210         28          7           22           29            21           12           33
Detached Housing


Single Family
                               210         40          9           28           38            29           17           46
Detached Housing

Notes:
1. Trip generated based on Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), Trip Generation (8th Editions) equations for Single
Family Detached Housing (Land Use Code 210):
AM: T = 0.70(X) + 9.74; Enter = 25%; Exit = 75%
PM: Ln(T) = 0.90 Ln(X) + 0.51; Enter = 63%; Exit = 37%
Where T = trips generated, X = Dwelling Units
Source: Trip Generation (8th Edition), ITE, 2008; Fehr & Peers, April 2012.
Ms. Amy Skewes-Cox
April 25, 2012
Page 5 of 9




The proposed Project is estimated to generate 29 AM peak hour vehicle trips and 33 PM peak
hour vehicle trips. The high-end scenario generates 38 AM peak hour vehicle trips and 46 PM
peak hour vehicle trips.

Trip distribution percentages were developed based on existing travel patterns as evidenced in
the intersection counts. Figure 2 illustrates the trip distribution derived from the counts. The
Project trips were assigned to the network based on the trip distribution percentages shown in
Figure 2. Figures 3 and 4 illustrate the Existing Plus Project volumes for the proposed Project (28
housing units) and the high-end scenario (40 housing units), respectively.

III.    EXISTING PLUS PROJECT LEVEL OF SERVICE

Weekday AM and PM peak hour intersection operations were evaluated for the following
scenarios:

        Existing Plus Proposed Project ­ 28 Single-Family Detached Homes: Existing
        conditions plus Project-generated traffic for 28 single family homes
        Existing Plus High-End Scenario ­ 40 Single-Family Detached Homes: Existing
        conditions plus traffic generated by 40 single-family homes

No roadway improvements were assumed for these cases, except the addition of a side-street
stop-controlled intersection at the proposed Project driveway on Moraga Road.

Existing Plus Project operation service levels are summarized in Table 3. As shown, the addition
of Project traffic would not change the level of service at the study intersections in either the AM
or PM peak hours. However, the two unsignalized intersections ­ Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga
Road and Center Street/Lucas Drive/Moraga Road ­ would continue to operate at a poor LOS for
the side-street movements. The delays experienced by the side-street movements would increase
by less than two seconds, under both the proposed Project and the high-end scenarios.

The new intersection formed by the Project driveway would operate at overall LOS A, and LOS C
for the outbound movements from the new driveway.

The Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga Road and Center Street/Lucas Drive/Moraga Road
intersections were evaluated against Signal Warrant #3 in the California MUTCD. The peak hour
volume warrant is applied where traffic conditions are such that for one hour of the day, minor
street traffic suffers undue delay in entering or crossing a major street. Table 4 summarizes the
results from the peak hour signal warrant analysis for the Existing, Existing Plus Project, and
Existing Plus High-End scenarios. The Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga Road intersection meets
the signal warrant in all three cases. The Center Street/Lucas Drive/Moraga Road intersection
does not meet the warrant. The Project driveway intersection also does not meet the warrant (a
minimum of 100 movements from a one-lane side-street is needed to meet the warrant, and a
minimum of 150 movements is needed to meet the warrant for a two-lane side street). The
warrant worksheets are provided in Appendix D.
Ms. Amy Skewes-Cox
April 25, 2012
Page 6 of 9




                                                                                TABLE 3
                                                                                                        1
                                                                EXISTING PLUS PROJECT LEVELS OF SERVICE


                                                                                                                      Existing +                              Existing +
                                                                             Existing
                                          2     Peak                                                                   28 SFDU                                 40 SFDU
      Intersection             Control
                                                Hour
                                                                         3                                        3                                           3
                                                                Delay                   LOS              Delay                     LOS               Delay                 LOS

1. Rheem Boulevard /                             AM               32.7                   C                 32.9                     C                  32.9                 C
                                 Signal
Moraga Road                                      PM               31.0                   C                 31.4                     C                  31.4                 C

2. Project Driveway /                            AM                                                     0.3 (17.6)                 A (C)            0.4 (17.5)             A (C)
                                  SSSC                             Future Intersection
Moraga Road                                      PM                                                     0.2 (15.1)                 A (C)            0.3 (15.3)             A (C)

3. Rheem Valley
                                                 AM           1.4 (42.9)                A (E)           1.4 (43.3)                 A (E)            1.4 (43.0)             A (E)
Driveway / Moraga                 SSSC
                                                 PM           5.3 (37.7)                A (E)           5.4 (39.1)                 A (E)            5.5 (39.7)             A (E)
Road

4. Center Street /                               AM           1.5 (70.3)                A (F)           1.5 (72.2)                 A (F)            1.5 (72.8)             A (E)
                                  SSSC
Moraga Road                                      PM           2.2 (76.5)                A (F)           2.2 (78.1)                 A (F)            2.2 (78.9)             A (F)

5. Ascot Drive / Moraga                          AM               13.4                   B                 13.4                     B                  13.4                 B
                                 Signal
Road                                             PM               10.2                   B                 10.2                     B                  10.2                 B

Notes:
1. Traffic operations results include delay (seconds per vehicle) and LOS (level of service). LOS is based on delay thresholds published in the Highway Capacity Manual
(Transportation Research Board, 2000).
1. Signal = signalized intersection, SSSC = side street stop controlled intersection
2. For side-street stop controlled intersections, average delay is listed first followed by the delay for the worst approach
Fehr & Peers, April 2012
Ms. Amy Skewes-Cox
April 25, 2012
Page 7 of 9




                                                 TABLE 4
                                   PEAK HOUR SIGNAL WARRANT SUMMARY


                                                                                        Existing +          Existing +
        Intersection               Control       Peak Hour           Existing
                                                                                         28 SFDU             40 SFDU


Rheem Valley Driveway /                              AM                No                   No                  No
                                     SSSC
Moraga Road                                          PM                Yes                  Yes                 Yes


Center Street / Moraga                               AM                 No                  No                  No
                                     SSSC
Road                                                 PM                 No                  No                  No

Notes:
1. The signal warrant analysis follows Warrant 3 of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD)
Fehr & Peers, April 2012


IV.       PROJECT ACCESS INTERSECTION DESIGN OPTIONS

As described in Section II, the Project site plan provides a single full-access driveway on Moraga
Road. The Existing Plus Project LOS analysis indicates that turning movements from this driveway
would operate at LOS C, and the volumes are not sufficient to meet the peak hour volume signal
warrant (a minimum side-street volume of 100 vehicles applies at this location). However,
destinations located within walking distance of the Project site, including Rheem Valley Center to
the west, Campolindo High School to the north and Donald Rheem Elementary School to the
southwest, are likely to generate pedestrian trips that cross Moraga Road. Figure 5 illustrates
these pedestrian "desire lines".

Due to its location, a high number of residents living in the Project site will likely access the
Rheem Valley Center and the southbound bus stop by walking. Under existing conditions,
pedestrians would either have to walk north to the Moraga Road/Rheem Boulevard intersection
or south to the Center Street/Lucas Drive/Moraga Road intersection to cross Moraga Road legally.
It is unlikely that pedestrians would choose to walk approximately 800 feet out of their way to
cross the street, and most would likely consider "jay-walking" instead. Given the five-lane width
of Moraga Road, volumes of about 1,500 vehicles, and the 35 mph posted speed, unprotected
mid-block crossings ­ either jaywalking or crossing in a striped crosswalk without high-visibility
enhancements -- would not be desirable. Thereby, three different options to serve pedestrian
crossings have been developed:

          Option 1: Signalize the Rheem Valley Driveway/Moraga Road intersection and serve
          both the higher vehicle volumes at that driveway and all local pedestrian crossings at this
          intersection;
          Option 2: Install a Pedestrian Hybrid Beacon (PHB) on Moraga Road, south of the Project
          driveway; or
          Option 3: Install a Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon (RRFB) crossing on Moraga Road,
          south of the Project driveway.
Ms. Amy Skewes-Cox
April 25, 2012
Page 8 of 9




Option 1, illustrated in Figure 6, involves installing a standard traffic signal at the Rheem Valley
Center Driveway/Moraga Road intersection, including high-visibility (zebra-stripe) crosswalks on
the northbound and southbound approaches. The new signal would require the driveways on the
east side of Moraga Road (the outbound driveway from the vacant building and the driveways
serving the Veterinary Hospital) to be reconfigured so that only one vehicle approach remains.
Signalizing this intersection would be beneficial to the side-street traffic level of service, since the
PM peak hour volume warrant is met, and it would also provide full protection to pedestrians
crossing Moraga Road. Signalizing this intersection accomplishes more than signalizing the
Project access intersection, as that driveway serves a much smaller traffic volume than the Rheem
Valley Center driveway.

Option 2, illustrated in Figure 7, involves installing a Pedestrian Hybrid Beacon (PHB) on Moraga
Road, a short distance south of the Project Driveway. This installation includes a high-visibility
crosswalk with a short raised median on either side of the crosswalk to provide a raised barrier
between pedestrians and vehicles that might otherwise enter the center turn lane. The PHB is a
signal which remains dark until a pedestrian presses a push button to activate the system. When
activated, the system flashes a sequence of amber warning beacons followed by red "stop"
beacons, thus regulating drivers travelling along Moraga Road (i.e. directing them to stop). The
PHB system includes count-down pedestrian signal heads, along with "walk" / "don't walk" signs.
This installation would allow for full vehicle access at the Project driveway (with a Stop sign only
on the Project driveway approach) and would not require reconfiguring the other driveways along
Moraga Road.

Option 3, illustrated in Figure 8, involves installing a Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon (RRFB)
on Moraga Road, a short distance south of the Project Driveway. This installation also includes a
high-visibility crosswalk and a short median on either side. Like the PHB, the RRFB beacons
remain dark until a pedestrian activates the system by pressing a push button. While the PHB
emits amber red flashing lights followed by a red signal, forcing vehicles to stop, the RRFB emits
yellow flashing lights warning motorists that pedestrians are crossing the roadway. Thus, it is a
warning device only, not a regulatory device. Drivers are required to yield to pedestrians in the
crosswalk, but are not regulated by a red `Stop' indication.

Table 5 provides a comparison of the basic operational elements of the three options.
      Appendix A
Intersection Count Sheets
                                                                        All Traffic Data
                                                                                  (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                                    File Name    : 12-7125-001 Moraga-Rheem
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                  Page No      :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Bank 1
                          Moraga Road                          Rheem Boulevard                           Moraga Road                           Rheem Boulevard
                           Southbound                            Westbound                                Northbound                              Eastbound
      Start Time   Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Left    Thru     Right App. Total         Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Left     Thru      Right   App. Total   Int. Total

          07:30      0       2        0             2     0         0         0            0        0       1        0             1     0         0         0             0           3
          07:45      0       0        0             0     0         0         0            0        0       2        0             2     0         0         0             0           2
           Total     0       2        0             2     0         0         0            0        0       3        0             3     0         0         0             0           5


          08:15      2       0        0             2     0         0         0            0        0       1        0             1     0         0         0             0           3
          08:30      0       0        1             1     0         0         0            0        0       0        0             0     0         0         1             1           2

           Total     2       0        1             3     0         0         0            0        0       1        0             1     0         0         1             1           5




          16:00      0       1        0             1     0         0         0            0        0       1        0             1     0         0         0             0          2
          16:15      0       0        0             0     0         0         0            0        1       1        0             2     0         0         0             0          2
          16:30      0       1        0             1     0         1         3            4        0       0        0             0     0         0         0             0          5
          16:45      0       1        0             1     0         0         0            0        0       0        0             0     1         0         0             1          2
           Total     0       3        0             3     0         1         3            4        1       2        0             3     1         0         0             1         11

          17:00      0       1        0             1     0         0         2            2        0       0        0             0     0         0         0             0          3
          17:15      0       1        0             1     0         0         1            1        0       0        0             0     0         0         0             0          2
          17:30      0       1        0             1     0         0         0            0        0       0        0             0     0         0         0             0          1
          17:45      0       1        0             1     0         1         0            1        0       1        0             1     0         0         2             2          5
           Total     0       4        0             4     0         1         3            4        0       1        0             1     0         0         2             2         11

     Grand Total      2      9         1          12      0         2         6            8        1       7        0             8     1         0         3             4         32
      Apprch %     16.7     75       8.3                  0        25        75                  12.5    87.5        0                  25         0        75
         Total %    6.2   28.1       3.1        37.5      0       6.2      18.8          25       3.1    21.9        0           25    3.1         0       9.4         12.5
                                                                                      All Traffic Data
                                                                                               (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                                              File Name    : 12-7125-001 Moraga-Rheem
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                            Start Date   : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                            Page No      :2


                                      Moraga Road                            Rheem Boulevard                       Moraga Road                           Rheem Boulevard
                                       Southbound                              Westbound                            Northbound                              Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right   App. Total   Left    Thru     Right   App. Total   Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Left     Thru      Right   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 08:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30
              07:30            0         2           0           2       0        0        0            0      0      1        0            1       0        0         0             0           3
              07:45            0          0          0           0       0        0        0            0      0      2        0            2       0        0         0             0           2
              08:00            0          0          0           0       0        0        0            0      0      0        0            0       0        0         0             0           0
              08:15            2          0          0           2       0        0        0            0      0      1        0            1       0        0         0             0           3
      Total Volume             2          2          0           4       0        0        0            0      0      4        0            4       0        0         0             0           8
      % App. Total           50         50           0                   0        0        0                   0    100        0                    0        0         0
                PHF        .250       .250        .000        .500    .000     .000     .000        .000    .000   .500     .000         .500    .000     .000      .000         .000        .667
                                                          All Traffic Data
                                                               (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                          File Name               : 12-7125-001 Moraga-Rheem
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                      Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                                        Start Date              : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                        Page No                 :3

                                                                      Moraga Road
                                                              Out         In     Total
                                                                    4        4       8


                                                                   0     2     2
                                                               Right Thru Left




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                         0
                                     Total




                                                                                                        Out
                                                 0




                                                                                           Right Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                          Rheem Boulevard
                      Rheem Boulevard




                                                                                                           2
                                                                            North




                                                                                               0
                                0


                                                      0
                                             Right Thru
                             In




                                                                                                                In
                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:30




                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                   0
                                                             Bank 1
                                                 0




                                                                                           Left
                        0
                     Out




                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                            2
                                                                Left        Thru Right
                                                                        0       4    0


                                                                    2          4       6
                                                              Out           In     Total
                                                                        Moraga Road
                                                                                      All Traffic Data
                                                                                               (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                                              File Name    : 12-7125-001 Moraga-Rheem
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                            Start Date   : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                            Page No      :4


                                      Moraga Road                            Rheem Boulevard                       Moraga Road                           Rheem Boulevard
                                       Southbound                              Westbound                            Northbound                              Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right   App. Total   Left    Thru     Right   App. Total   Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Left     Thru      Right   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:15
              16:15            0          0          0           0       0        0        0           0       1      1        0            2       0        0         0            0           2
              16:30            0         1           0           1       0        1        3           4       0      0        0            0       0        0         0            0           5
              16:45            0          1          0           1       0        0        0           0       0      0        0            0       1        0         0            1           2
              17:00            0          1          0           1       0        0        2           2       0      0        0            0       0        0         0            0           3
      Total Volume             0          3          0           3       0        1        5           6       1      1        0            2       1        0         0            1          12
      % App. Total             0       100           0                   0     16.7     83.3                  50     50        0                  100        0         0
                PHF        .000       .750        .000        .750    .000     .250     .417        .375    .250   .250     .000         .250    .250     .000      .000         .250        .600
                                                          All Traffic Data
                                                               (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                          File Name               : 12-7125-001 Moraga-Rheem
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                      Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                                        Start Date              : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                        Page No                 :5

                                                                      Moraga Road
                                                              Out         In     Total
                                                                    7        3      10


                                                                   0     3     0
                                                               Right Thru Left




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                         3
                                     Total




                                                                                                        Out
                                                 1




                                                                                           Right Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                          Rheem Boulevard
                      Rheem Boulevard




                                                                                                           0
                                                                            North




                                                                                               5
                                1


                                                      0
                                             Right Thru
                             In




                                                                                                                In
                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 16:15




                                                                                                    1


                                                                                                                   6
                                                             Bank 1
                                                 0




                                                                                           Left
                        2
                     Out




                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                            6
                                                                Left        Thru Right
                                                                        1       1    0


                                                                    3          2       5
                                                              Out           In     Total
                                                                        Moraga Road
                                                                                                               All Traffic Data
                                                                                                                             (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                                                                                             File Name          : 12-7125-001 Moraga-Rheem
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                                                                         Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                           Start Date         : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                           Page No            :1


                                                                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                       Moraga Road                                  Rheem Boulevard                                       Moraga Road                                     Rheem Boulevard
                                       Southbound                                      Westbound                                           Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time           Left      Thr       Rig Ped            App. Total    Left    Thru Right Peds                 App. Total  Left Thru Right Peds                  App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds              App. Total      Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
            07:00         3        46        24         0            73       3      13         11             0       27         32          77           1    1          110     17            6    13       1             36                 2          246            248
            07:15        13        74        41         0           128       3      22         24             1       49         38         142           4    1          184     16            9    21       1             46                 3          407            410
            07:30        18        91        58         0           167       3      26         70             1       99         25         261           4    1          290     29           11    44       5             84                 7          640            647
            07:45        24       104        48         0           176       8      22         29             0       59         35         130          13    0          178     26           22    33       3             81                 3          494            497
             Total       58       315       171         0           544      17      83        134             2      234        130         610          22    3          762     88           48   111      10            247                15         1787           1802

            08:00        21       141        46         0           208      20      28          7             0       55         56          80           8    2          144     10           14    29       2             53                  4         460            464
            08:15         7        92        49         0           148      15      21          7             0       43         55         114          10    0          179     17           10    18       0             45                  0         415            415
            08:30        11        74        56         0           141       9      23         17             0       49         48          99           8    0          155     32           13    24       2             69                  2         414            416
            08:45        11        82        34         0           127       5      21         17             1       43         40          96           5    2          141     30           22    22       0             74                  3         385            388
             Total       50       389       185         0           624      49      93         48             1      190        199         389          31    4          619     89           59    93       4            241                  9        1674           1683




            16:00        14       113        51         0           178      16      18         14            42       48         30         110          16   37          156     44           23    36      51            103              130           485            615
            16:15        16       114        34         0           164      17      24         10             3       51         26          94          16    2          136     44            8    45      15             97               20           448            468
            16:30        14       141        59         0           214      22      31         24             8       77         37         111          15   25          163     48           28    34      24            110               57           564            621
            16:45        22       117        49         0           188      20      26         21             0       67         46          89          13    0          148     54           26    49       0            129                0           532            532
             Total       66       485       193         0           744      75      99         69            53      243        139         404          60   64          603    190           85   164      90            439              207          2029           2236

            17:00        24       142        55         0           221      19      24         25             0       68         27         118          14    1          159     57       25        50       2            132                 3          580            583
            17:15        22       133        37         0           192      24      33         24             1       81         41         107          13    0          161     44       33        57       0            134                 1          568            569
            17:30        31       166        64         0           261      11      30         13             0       54         40         131          26    1          197     45       26        50       3            121                 4          633            637
            17:45        22       149        44         0           215      12      25         15             3       52         39         121           9    2          169     53       27        60       2            140                 7          576            583
             Total       99       590       200         0           889      66     112         77             4      255        147         477          62    4          686    199      111       217       7            527                15         2357           2372

     Grand Total        273      1779       749         0          2801     207     387         328           60      922        615        1880      175      75        2670      566     303        585    111          1454               246          7847           8093
       Apprch %         9.7      63.5      26.7                            22.5      42        35.6                               23        70.4      6.6                         38.9    20.8       40.2
         Total %        3.5      22.7       9.5                    35.7     2.6     4.9         4.2                   11.7       7.8          24      2.2                   34     7.2     3.9        7.5                  18.5                  3            97




                                                Moraga Road                                           Rheem Boulevard                                          Moraga Road                                    Rheem Boulevard
                                                  Southbound                                             Westbound                                              Northbound                                       Eastbound
             Start Time            Left         Thru       Right      App. Total      Left              Thru      Right        App. Total          Left        Thru      Right     App. Total         Left     Thru        Right                App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 08:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30
                   07:30            18             91        58                                                      70                99                      261                       290           29                           44                   84               640
               07:45              24          104             48            176            8             22          29               59            35         130           13          178           26           22               33                 81               494
               08:00              21          141             46           208            20             28           7               55            56          80            8          144           10            14              29                 53               460
               08:15               7           92             49            148           15             21           7               43             55        114           10          179           17            10              18                 45               415
        Total Volume              70          428            201            699           46             97         113              256            171        585           35          791           82            57             124                263              2009
        % App. Total              10         61.2           28.8                          18           37.9        44.1                            21.6         74          4.4                      31.2          21.7            47.1
                PHF        .729       .759       .866                       .840                    .575   .866   .404               .646     .763   .560   .673                .682                       .707   .648   .705   .783   .785


                                                                                                                                 Moraga Road
                                                                                                                          Out        In     Total
                                                                                                                           780        699    1479


                                                                                                                              201  428   70
                                                                                                                           Right Thru Left




                                                                                                                     Peak Hour Data


                                                                          732
                                                                         Total




                                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                                                    162
                                                                                         82




                                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                                                     Rheem Boulevard
                                                          Rheem Boulevard




                                                                                                                                                                     113
                                                                                                                                     North

                                                                 263


                                                                                               57
                                                                                       Right Thru
                                                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                                           256
                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:30




                                                                                                                                                                           97
                                                                                                                         Unshifted
                                                                                        124




                                                                                                                                                                   Left
                                                          469
                                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                                                                                                                     46


                                                                                                                                                                                                     418
                                                                                                                            Left Thru Right
                                                                                                                              171  585   35


                                                                                                                           598        791    1389
                                                                                                                          Out        In     Total
                                                                                                                                 Moraga Road

Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
              17:00          24        142          55                           221                  19     24     25                68       27     118     14                159                          57     25     50   132     580
              17:15          22        133          37                           192                  24     33     24                81       41     107     13                161                          44     33     57   134     568
              17:30          31        166          64                           261                  11     30     13                54       40     131     26                197                          45     26     50   121     633
              17:45          22        149          44                           215                  12     25     15                52       39     121      9                169                          53     27     60   140     576
      Total Volume           99        590         200                           889                  66    112     77               255      147     477     62                686                         199    111    217   527    2357
      % App. Total         11.1       66.4        22.5                                              25.9   43.9   30.2                       21.4    69.5      9                                           37.8   21.1   41.2
                PHF        .798       .889        .781                      .852                    .688   .848   .770               .787    .896    .910   .596                .871                       .873   .841   .904   .941   .931
                                                          All Traffic Data
                                                               (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                        File Name               : 12-7125-001 Moraga-Rheem
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                    Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                                      Start Date              : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                      Page No                 :3

                                                                     Moraga Road
                                                              Out        In     Total
                                                               753        889    1642


                                                                  200  590   99
                                                               Right Thru Left




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                      986
                                     Total




                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                       272
                                              199




                                                                                         Right Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                        Rheem Boulevard
                      Rheem Boulevard




                                                                         North




                                                                                            77
                             527


                                                    111
                                             Right Thru
                             In




                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                112


                                                                                                              255
                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 17:00

                                                             Unshifted
                                              217




                                                                                         Left
                      459
                     Out




                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                           66


                                                                                                                        527
                                                                Left Thru Right
                                                                  147  477   62


                                                               873        686    1559
                                                              Out        In     Total
                                                                     Moraga Road
                                                                       All Traffic Data
                                                                                 (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                            File Name      : 12-7125-002 Moraga-Self Storage Driveway
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                        Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                          Start Date     : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                          Page No        :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Bank 1
                          Moraga Road                       Self Storage Driveway                      Moraga Road
                           Southbound                             Westbound                             Northbound                          Eastbound
      Start Time   Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Left      Thru     Right App. Total      Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Int. Total

          07:15      0      0        0            0      0         0         0           0        0      2        0            2      0      0        0            0           2
          07:30      0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      3        0            3      0      0        0            0           4
          07:45      0      0        0            0      0         0         0           0        0      2        0            2      0      0        0            0           2
           Total     0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      7        0            7      0      0        0            0           8


          08:15      0      0        0            0      0         0         0           0        0      2        0            2      0      0        0            0           2
          08:30      0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      0        0            0      0      0        0            0           1

           Total     0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      2        0            2      0      0        0            0           3




          16:00      0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      1        0            1      0      0        0            0           2
          16:15      0      0        0            0      0         0         0           0        0      3        0            3      0      0        0            0           3
          16:30      0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      0        0            0      0      0        0            0           1
          16:45      0      2        0            2      0         0         0           0        0      0        0            0      0      0        0            0           2
           Total     0      4        0            4      0         0         0           0        0      4        0            4      0      0        0            0           8

          17:00      0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      0        0            0      0      0        0            0           1
          17:15      0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      0        0            0      0      0        0            0           1
          17:30      0      1        0            1      0         0         0           0        0      0        0            0      0      0        0            0           1
          17:45      0      2        0            2      0         0         0           0        0      0        0            0      0      0        0            0           2
           Total     0      5        0            5      0         0         0           0        0      0        0            0      0      0        0            0           5

     Grand Total     0     11        0           11      0         0         0           0        0     13        0           13      0      0        0            0          24
      Apprch %       0    100        0                   0         0         0                    0    100        0                   0      0        0
        Total %      0    45.8       0         45.8      0         0         0           0        0    54.2       0         54.2      0      0        0            0
                                                                            All Traffic Data
                                                                                        (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                      File Name            : 12-7125-002 Moraga-Self Storage Driveway
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                  Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date           : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No              :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       Moraga Road                           Self Storage Driveway                          Moraga Road
                       Southbound                                  Westbound                                 Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time Left Thr        Rig Ped       App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds         App. Total Left  Thru Right Peds      App. Total    Left   Thru Right   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
       07:00      1    0    0        0           1      0        0       0      1             0    0       0       1    0           1       0       0     0           0              1              2             3

       07:30      0    0    0        0           0      0       0       0      0           0      0      0      1      0            1       0      0     0            0              0              1             1
       07:45      0    0    0        0           0      0       0       1      0           1      0      0      0      0            0       0      0     0            0              0              1             1
        Total     1    0    0        0           1      0       0       1      1           1      0      0      2      0            2       0      0     0            0              1              4             5

       08:00      0    0    0        0           0      0       0       1      1           1      0      0      2      0            2       0      0     0            0              1             3             4
       08:15      2    0    0        0           2      1       0       1      0           2      0      0      1      0            1       0      0     0            0              0             5             5
       08:30      1    0    0        0           1      0       0       1      0           1      0      0      0      0            0       0      0     0            0              0             2             2
       08:45      1    0    0        0           1      1       0       0      2           1      0      0      1      0            1       0      0     0            0              2             3             5
        Total     4    0    0        0           4      2       0       3      3           5      0      0      4      0            4       0      0     0            0              3            13            16




       16:00      0    0    0        0           0      3       0       2     38           5      0      0      1      0            1       0      0     0            0            38              6            44
       16:15      1    0    0        0           1      1       0       1      3           2      0      0      0      0            0       0      0     0            0             3              3             6
       16:30      2    0    0        0           2      2       0       0      1           2      0      0      2      0            2       0      0     0            0             1              6             7
       16:45      2    0    0        0           2      1       0       1      1           2      0      0      0      0            0       0      0     0            0             1              4             5
        Total     5    0    0        0           5      7       0       4     43          11      0      0      3      0            3       0      0     0            0            43             19            62

       17:00      1    0    0        0           1      0       0       2      0           2      0      0      1      0            1       0      0     0            0              0             4             4
       17:15      1    0    0        0           1      1       0       3      1           4      0      0      1      0            1       0      0     0            0              1             6             7
       17:30      2    0    0        0           2      0       0       0      0           0      0      0      0      0            0       0      0     0            0              0             2             2
       17:45      1    0    0        0           1      0       0       3      3           3      0      0      0      0            0       0      0     0            0              3             4             7
        Total     5    0    0        0           5      1       0       8      4           9      0      0      2      0            2       0      0     0            0              4            16            20

  Grand Total    15    0    0        0         15      10       0     16      51          26      0      0    11       0          11        0      0     0            0            51             52          103
   Apprch %     100    0    0                         38.5      0    61.5                         0      0   100                            0      0     0
     Total %    28.8   0    0                28.8     19.2      0    30.8                 50      0      0   21.2               21.2        0      0     0            0         49.5           50.5
                                                                           All Traffic Data
                                                                                     (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                              File Name      : 12-7125-003 Moraga-Shopping Center Driveway
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                          Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                            Start Date     : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                            Page No        :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Bank 1
                                                                                                                                            Rheem Shopping Center Main
                          Moraga Road                           Adjacent Driveways                           Moraga Road
                                                                                                                                                      Driveway
                          Southbound                                Westbound                                Northbound
                                                                                                                                                     Eastbound
      Start Time   Left   Thru    Right     App. Total   Left      Thru     Right    App. Total    Left      Thru    Right     App. Total   Left    Thru     Right App. Total   Int. Total

          07:15      0       0          0            0     0           0        0             0         0       2          0            2     0        0        0           0           2
          07:30      0       1          0            1     0           0        0             0         0       3          0            3     0        0        0           0           4
          07:45      0       0          0            0     0           0        0             0         0       2          0            2     0        0        0           0           2
           Total     0       1          0            1     0           0        0             0         0       7          0            7     0        0        0           0           8


          08:15      0       0          0            0     0           0        0             0         0       1          0            1     0        0        0           0           1
          08:30      0       1          0            1     0           0        0             0         0       0          0            0     0        0        0           0           1

           Total     0       1          0            1     0           0        0             0         0       1          0            1     0        0        0           0           2




          16:00      0       1          0            1     1           0        0             1         0       0          0            0     0        0        0           0           2
          16:15      0       0          0            0     0           0        0             0         0       2          0            2     0        0        0           0           2
          16:30      0       2          0            2     0           0        0             0         0       0          0            0     0        0        0           0           2
          16:45      0       2          0            2     0           0        0             0         0       0          0            0     0        0        0           0           2
           Total     0       5          0            5     1           0        0             1         0       2          0            2     0        0        0           0           8

          17:00      0       1          0            1     0           0        0             0         0       0          0            0     0        0        0           0           1
          17:15      0       1          0            1     0           0        0             0         0       0          0            0     0        0        0           0           1
          17:30      0       1          0            1     0           0        0             0         0       1          0            1     0        0        0           0           2
          17:45      0       2          0            2     0           0        0             0         0       0          0            0     0        0        0           0           2
           Total     0       5          0            5     0           0        0             0         0       1          0            1     0        0        0           0           6

     Grand Total     0      12          0          12       1          0        0             1         0      11          0          11      0        0        0           0         24
      Apprch %       0     100          0                100           0        0                       0     100          0                  0        0        0
         Total %     0      50          0          50     4.2          0        0           4.2         0    45.8          0        45.8      0        0        0           0
                                                                                  All Traffic Data
                                                                                                    (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                               File Name           : 12-7125-003 Moraga-Shopping Center Driveway
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                           Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date          : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                             Page No             :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                   Rheem Shopping Center Main
                          Moraga Road                           Adjacent Driveways                              Moraga Road
                                                                                                                                                             Driveway
                          Southbound                                Westbound                                   Northbound
                                                                                                                                                            Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thr    Rig Ped      App. Total   Left   Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total      Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total     Left Thru Right Peds App. Total    Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
        07:00       0     58     4      0          62       0      0        0     1             0        8     106      0       0         114        0      0     6     3        6               4         182            186
        07:15       1     95     3      0          99       0      0        0     0             0       19     198      0       0         217        0      0     3     1        3               1         319            320
        07:30       0    146     3      0         149       0      0        0     0             0       34     311      0       0         345        2      0     9     4       11               4         505            509
        07:45       2    141     6      0         149       0      0        0     0             0       49     139      1       0         189        3      0     7     0       10               0         348            348
         Total      3    440    16      0         459       0      0        0     1             0      110     754      1       0         865        5      0    25     8       30               9        1354           1363

        08:00       0    184     5      0         189       1      0        0     0             1       18     145      1       0         164        4      0    12     2       16               2         370            372
        08:15       1    113     7      0         121       1      0        0     0             1       25     180      1       0         206        2      0    10     0       12               0         340            340
        08:30       4    101     8      0         113       1      0        0     0             1       25     144      0       0         169        7      0    16     1       23               1         306            307
        08:45       4     98    10      0         112       0      0        1     0             1       25     130      1       0         156        6      0    12     2       18               2         287            289
         Total      9    496    30      0         535       3      0        1     0             4       93     599      3       0         695       19      0    50     5       69               5        1303           1308




        16:00       1    161    13      0         175       1      0       4     36            5        35     132      2       0         169       14      0    28     1       42             37          391            428
        16:15       1    145    23      0         169       1      0       1      3            2        38     126      1       0         165       14      0    31     7       45             10          381            391
        16:30       2    163    21      0         186       0      0       2      1            2        35     140      1       0         176       14      0    43     0       57              1          421            422
        16:45       1    179    21      0         201       1      0       5      1            6        37     142      0       0         179        9      0    38     0       47              1          433            434
         Total      5    648    78      0         731       3      0      12     41           15       145     540      4       0         689       51      0   140     8      191             49         1626           1675

        17:00       0    179    18      0         197       0      0       3      0            3        27     143      0       0         170       16      0    53     0       69               0         439            439
        17:15       2    204     8      0         214       1      1       1      1            3        31     134      2       0         167       13      0    36     2       49               3         433            436
        17:30       1    206    18      0         225       1      0       3      0            4        31     172      0       0         203       20      0    23     1       43               1         475            476
        17:45       1    198    17      0         216       0      1       3      2            4        26     148      1       0         175       15      0    31     2       46               4         441            445
         Total      4    787    61      0         852       2      2      10      3           14       115     597      3       0         715       64      0   143     5      207               8        1788           1796

  Grand Total      21   2371   185      0       2577        8       2      23    45           33        463   2490      11      0       2964       139      0   358    26      497             71         6071           6142
    Apprch %      0.8     92   7.2                       24.2     6.1    69.7                          15.6     84     0.4                          28      0    72
      Total %     0.3   39.1     3               42.4     0.1       0     0.4                0.5        7.6     41     0.2               48.8      2.3      0   5.9             8.2           1.2          98.8
                                                                      All Traffic Data
                                                                               (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                                 File Name    : 12-7125-004 Moraga-Lucas
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                             Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date   : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                               Page No      :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Bank 1
                           Moraga Road                         Lucas Drive                            Moraga Road                   Shopping Center Driveway
                           Southbound                          Westbound                              Northbound                            Eastbound
      Start Time    Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Left   Thru     Right App. Total       Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Left    Thru      Right App. Total   Int. Total
           07:00      0       0        0            0     0       0         0           0         0      0        0            0     0        0         1           1           1
           07:15      0       0        0            0     0       0         0           0         0      0        0            0     2        0         0           2           2
           07:30      0       1        0            1     0       0         1           1         0      1        0            1     0        0         0           0           3
           07:45      0       0        0            0     0       0         0           0         0      1        0            1     1        0         0           1           2
            Total     0       1        0            1     0       0         1           1         0      2        0            2     3        0         1           4           8


          08:15       0       0       0            0      0       0        0            0        0       1       0            1      0        0         0          0            1
          08:30       0       1       0            1      0       0        0            0        0       0       0            0      0        0         0          0            1

           Total      0       1       0            1      0       0        0            0        0       1       0            1      0        0         0          0            2




          16:00       0       1       0            1      0       0        0            0        0       0       0            0      0        0         0          0            1
          16:15       0       0       0            0      0       0        0            0        0       3       0            3      0        0         1          1            4
          16:30       0       1       0            1      0       0        0            0        0       0       0            0      0        0         0          0            1
          16:45       0       1       0            1      1       0        0            1        0       0       0            0      0        0         0          0            2
           Total      0       3       0            3      1       0        0            1        0       3       0            3      0        0         1          1            8

          17:00       0       1       0            1      0       0        0            0        0       0       0            0      0        0         1          1            2
          17:15       0       1       0            1      0       0        0            0        0       0       0            0      0        0         0          0            1
          17:30       0       1       0            1      0       0        0            0        0       1       0            1      0        0         0          0            2
          17:45       0       1       0            1      0       0        0            0        0       0       0            0      0        0         1          1            2
           Total      0       4       0            4      0       0        0            0        0       1       0            1      0        0         2          2            7

     Grand Total      0       9       0            9      1       0        1            2        0       7       0            7       3       0         4          7          25
      Apprch %        0     100       0                  50       0       50                     0     100       0                 42.9       0      57.1
         Total %      0      36       0           36      4       0        4            8        0      28       0           28      12       0        16         28
                                                                                               All Traffic Data
                                                                                                           (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                                                                                   File Name        : 12-7125-004 Moraga-Lucas
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                                                               Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                              Moraga Road                                   Lucas Drive                                Moraga Road                                    Shopping Center Driveway
                              Southbound                                    Westbound                                  Northbound                                             Eastbound
 Start Time        Left    Thr     Rig Ped         App. Total    Left   Thru Right Peds            App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total           Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
          07:00       0      62        0      0            62       1     0         0          1           1        4         104           0     0          108       2         0     3      2          5               3         176            179
          07:15       2      91        1      0            94       3     0         1          0           4        6         217           0     0          223       2         0     4      1          6               1         327            328
          07:30       0     157        2      0           159       4     0         0          0           4       10         373           4     0          387       1         1     4      5          6               5         556            561
          07:45       1     151        2      0           154       1     1         2          0           4       12         180           2     0          194       1         0     3      0          4               0         356            356
           Total      3     461        5      0           469       9     1         3          1          13       32         874           6     0          912       6         1    14      8         21               9        1415           1424

          08:00       2     201        1      1           204      5      0         1          0           6        5         168           5     0          178       2         0     6      1          8               2         396            398
          08:15       0     123        2      0           125      4      0         0          1           4       18         204           5     0          227       5         0     5      1         10               2         366            368
          08:30       0     115        2      0           117      2      0         0          0           2        3         169           1     0          173       0         0     2      1          2               1         294            295
          08:45       0     100        3      0           103      1      0         1          0           2       10         146           0     0          156       1         0    13      2         14               2         275            277
           Total      2     539        8      1           549     12      0         2          1          14       36         687          11     0          734       8         0    26      5         34               7        1331           1338




          16:00       0     189        8      1           197       3     0         0       44             3       13         170           0     0          183      2          0    22     1          24             46          407            453
          16:15       2     173        3      0           178       0     0         0        0             0       17         167           2     0          186      2          0    26    20          28             20          392            412
          16:30       1     205        5      0           211       0     0         1        2             1       23         175           1     0          199      8          0    32     0          40              2          451            453
          16:45       4     209        3      0           216       0     0         0        1             0       23         179           3     0          205      4          0    31     1          35              2          456            458
           Total      7     776       19      1           802       3     0         1       47             4       76         691           6     0          773     16          0   111    22         127             70         1706           1776

          17:00       3     224        7      0           234       1     1         0          0           2       18         165           5     0          188      2          0    25      0         27              0          451            451
          17:15       0     236        7      1           243       1     0         0          0           1       13         159           5     0          177      3          0    26      4         29              5          450            455
          17:30       3     238        3      0           244       4     0         0          0           4       20         214           6     0          240      7          1    27      3         35              3          523            526
          17:45       1     225        3      1           229       0     0         2          3           2        7         161           0     0          168      1          0    30      1         31              5          430            435
           Total      7     923       20      2           950       6     1         2          3           9       58         699          16     0          773     13          1   108      8        122             13         1854           1867

    Grand Total      19    2699       52      4          2770      30     2          8      52            40      202        2951       39        0        3192       43       2      259   43         304             99         6306           6405
      Apprch %      0.7    97.4      1.9                           75     5         20                            6.3        92.4      1.2                          14.1     0.7     85.2
        Total %     0.3    42.8      0.8                 43.9     0.5     0        0.1                0.6         3.2        46.8      0.6                  50.6     0.7       0      4.1              4.8            1.5          98.5




                                     Moraga Road                                         Lucas Drive                                            Moraga Road                           Shopping Center Driveway
                                      Southbound                                         Westbound                                              Northbound                                    Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right     App. Total     Left           Thru     Right        App. Total           Left        Thru    Right       App. Total       Left    Thru      Right App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 08:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30
              07:30            0       157          2            159           4           0          0                  4           10          373            4          387          1          1          4                   6              556
              07:45            1       151          2            154           1           1          2                  4           12          180            2          194          1          0          3                   4              356
              08:00            2       201          1            204           5           0          1                  6            5          168            5          178          2          0          6                   8              396
              08:15            0       123          2            125           4           0          0                  4           18          204            5          227          5          0          5                  10              366
      Total Volume             3       632          7            642          14           1          3                 18           45          925           16          986          9          1         18                  28             1674
                                                                    All Traffic Data
                                                                              (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                                  File Name    : 12-7125-005 Moraga-Ascot
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                Start Date   : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Bank 1
                          Moraga Road                          Driveway                            Moraga Road                               Ascot Drive
                          Southbound                          Westbound                            Northbound                                 Eastbound
      Start Time   Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Left   Thru    Right App. Total      Left   Thru    Right   App. Total      Left      Thru     Right   App. Total   Int. Total
           07:00     0       0        0            0     0       0       0           0         0      0        0            0        0          0        1             1           1

          07:30      0       0       0            0      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         1          0        0            1            1
          07:45      1       0       0            1      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         1          0        0            1            2
           Total     1       0       0            1      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         2          0        1            3            4

          08:00      0       0       0            0      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        1            1            1
          08:15      0       0       0            0      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        1            1            1

           Total     0       0       0            0      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        2            2            2




          16:00      0       0       0            0      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        1            1           1
          16:15      0       1       0            1      0      0         0          0         0      2       0            2         0          0        2            2           5
          16:30      0       0       1            1      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        1            1           2
          16:45      0       1       1            2      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        1            1           3
           Total     0       2       2            4      0      0         0          0         0      2       0            2         0          0        5            5          11

          17:00      0       1       0            1      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        1            1            2
          17:15      0       0       2            2      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        1            1            3
          17:30      0       1       0            1      0      0         0          0         0      1       0            1         0          0        0            0            2
          17:45      0       0       1            1      0      0         0          0         0      0       0            0         0          0        0            0            1
           Total     0       2       3            5      0      0         0          0         0      1       0            1         0          0        2            2            8

     Grand Total     1       4       5           10      0      0         0          0         0      3       0            3          2         0       10           12          25
      Apprch %      10      40      50                   0      0         0                    0    100       0                    16.7         0     83.3
         Total %     4      16      20           40      0      0         0          0         0     12       0           12          8         0       40           48
                                                                                                All Traffic Data
                                                                                                            (916) 771-8700
City of Moraga                                                                                                                                                                    File Name       : 12-7125-005 Moraga-Ascot
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                                                                Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date      : 4/17/2012
                                                                                                                                                                                  Page No         :1


                                                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                              Moraga Road                                   Driveway                                    Moraga Road                                             Ascot Drive
                              Southbound                                   Westbound                                    Northbound                                              Eastbound
 Start Time        Left    Thr     Rig Ped         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds              App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
          07:00       8      59        3      4            70     4       0           0         0           4        1          86           4     0           91     30          3     5     0           38               4          203            207
          07:15       2      84        8      2            94     3       2           1         0           6        3         172           6     0          181     35          1    17     5           53               7          334            341
          07:30       6     163        4      2           173     2       0           1         0           3        4         321           7     0          332     53          1    20     4           74               6          582            588
          07:45       8     140        6      0           154     2       1           0         0           3        7         159           5     0          171     40          0    21     1           61               1          389            390
           Total     24     446       21      8           491    11       3           2         0          16       15         738          22     0          775    158          5    63    10          226              18         1508           1526

          08:00       2     197        9      0           208     4       1           1         0           6        6         148           5     0          159     30          0    14     0           44                0         417            417
          08:15       5     125        8      1           138     4       0           0         0           4        9         184           5     0          198     33          1    14     0           48                1         388            389
          08:30       8      99       11      1           118     1       1           2         0           4        3         141           1     0          145     37          0    13     1           50                2         317            319
          08:45       6      90       15      1           111     6       1           0         0           7        3         128           5     0          136     28          1    12     0           41                1         295            296
           Total     21     511       43      3           575    15       3           3         0          21       21         601          16     0          638    128          2    53     1          183                4        1417           1421




          16:00      11     175       15      4           201     4       1           0      21             5        7         153           4     0          164     21          2     6     3           29              28          399            427
          16:15       4     178       26      3           208     2       0           0      15             2        4         168           4     0          176     14          1     9    18           24              36          410            446
          16:30       9     195       33      0           237     6       0           1       2             7       16         164          11     0          191     21          0     7     0           28               2          463            465
          16:45       7     207       22      1           236    10       2           0       1            12       12         175           9     0          196     29          0    10     1           39               3          483            486
           Total     31     755       96      8           882    22       3           1      39            26       39         660          28     0          727     85          3    32    22          120              69         1755           1824

          17:00       9     220      25       0           254     4       4           2         0          10       13         169           7     0          189     21          5     7     1           33                1         486            487
          17:15      11     234      27       0           272     9       2           0         1          11       12         154           3     0          169     19          1     8     0           28                1         480            481
          17:30       6     220      34       1           260     5       1           2         0           8       20         222           8     0          250     20          1    12     1           33                2         551            553
          17:45       4     205      38       1           247     6       1           0         0           7       18         144           1     0          163     17          2     4     0           23                1         440            441
           Total     30     879     124       2          1033    24       8           4         1          36       63         689          19     0          771     77          9    31     2          117                5        1957           1962

    Grand Total     106    2591     284      21          2981     72     17          10      40            99      138        2688       85        0        2911      448      19      179   35          646              96         6637           6733
      Apprch %      3.6    86.9     9.5                         72.7   17.2        10.1                            4.7        92.3      2.9                          69.3     2.9     27.7
        Total %     1.6      39     4.3                  44.9    1.1    0.3         0.2                1.5         2.1        40.5      1.3                  43.9     6.8     0.3      2.7               9.7             1.4          98.6




                                     Moraga Road                                           Driveway                                              Moraga Road                                   Ascot Drive
                                      Southbound                                          Westbound                                              Northbound                                     Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right    App. Total     Left             Thru    Right         App. Total           Left        Thru    Right       App. Total       Left     Thru     Right           App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 08:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30
              07:30            6       163          4           173            2            0          1                  3            4          321            7          332         53         1            20                 74               582
              07:45            8       140          6           154            2            1          0                  3            7          159            5          171         40         0            21                 61               389
              08:00            2       197          9           208            4            1          1                  6            6          148            5          159         30         0            14                 44               417
              08:15            5       125          8           138            4            0          0                  4            9          184            5          198         33         1            14                 48               388
      Total Volume           21        625         27           673           12            2          2                 16           26          812           22          860        156         2            69                227              1776
