 Planning Commission

     JULY 11, 2013

_______________________
                               Table of Contents

Agenda                                                              2
Conditional Use Permit No. PL-2013-0133 ­ The Proposed
Project is Categorically Exempt from Environmental Review in
Accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15301, Existing Facilities - Tony
Ancheta for Revere Tattoo (Applicant) / Kwok Low (Owner) -
Request to Operate a Tattoo Studio at 214 Harder Road, Unit D,
in the Neighborhood Commercial (CN) Zoning District.
         Staff Report                                               4
         Attachment I - Area & Zoning Map                           11
         Attachment II - Plans                                      12
         Attachment III- Proposed Window Sign                       27
         Attachment IV - Findings                                   28
         Attachment V - Conditions of Approval                      30
         Attachment VI-Tattoo Studios Map                           33
         Attachment VII- PD Memo                                    34
         Attachment VIII - Emails in Support                        38
         Attachment IX - Letters in Opposition                      51
Site Plan Review Application PL-2013-0168 - The Proposed
Project is Categorically Exempt from Environmental Review in
Accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15332, Infill Development. Meta
Housing Corporation, Aaron Mandel (Applicant) / Sean Sullivan
(Owner) ­ Request to build 60 units of Senior Housing and
approximately 6,000 square feet of ground floor retail and office
space on a vacant property. The project site includes four
parcels at 808 A Street, located on the north side of the street
midblock between Mission Boulevard and Montgomery Street
and is located in the Central City Commercial (CC-C) Zoning
District
         Agenda Report                                              56
         Attachment I - Area and Zoning Map                         64
         Attachment II - Development Plans                          65
         Attachment III - Traffic Study                             88
         Attachment IV - Project Comments - (For the Project)       107
         Attachment V - Project Comments - (Against the
         Project)                                                   109
         Attachment VI - Findings for Approval                      117
         Attachment VII - Conditions of Approval                    119
Approval of minutes
         April 25, 2013                                             135
         May 9, 2013                                                148
         May 23, 2013                                               174




                                        1
                                               CITY OF HAYWARD
                                   777 B STREET, HAYWARD, CA 94541-5007
                                       (510) 583-4205 / www.hayward-ca.gov
                                LIVE BROADCAST ­ LOCAL CABLE CHANNEL 15



                                             AGENDA
                                 HAYWARD PLANNING COMMISSION
                                 THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2013 , AT 7:00 PM
                                       COUNCIL CHAMBERS

MEMBERS OF THE AUDIENCE WISHING TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION:
Obtain a speaker's identification card, fill in the requested information, and give the card to the Commission Secretary. The
Secretary will give the card to the Commission Chair who will call on you when the item in which you are interested is being
considered. When your name is called, walk to the rostrum, state your name and address for the record and proceed with your
comments. The Chair may, at the beginning of the hearing, limit testimony to three (3) minutes per individual and five (5)
minutes per an individual representing a group of citizens for organization. Speakers are expected to honor the allotted time.


ROLL CALL

SALUTE TO FLAG

PUBLIC COMMENT: (The PUBLIC COMMENTS section provides an opportunity to address
the Planning Commission on items not listed on the agenda. The Commission welcomes your
comments and requests that speakers present their remarks in a respectful manner, within
established time limits and focus on issues which directly affect the City or are within the
jurisdiction of the City. As the Commission is prohibited by State law from discussing items not
listed on the agenda, your item will be taken under consideration and may be referred to staff for
further action).

ACTION ITEMS: (The Commission will permit comment as each item is called for Public
Hearing. Please submit a speaker card to the Secretary if you wish to speak on a public hearing
item).

PUBLIC HEARINGS: For agenda item No. 1 and agenda item No. 2, the decision of the
Planning Commission is final unless appealed. The appeal period is 10 days from the date of the
decision. If appealed, a public hearing will be scheduled before the City Council for final
decision.

1. Conditional Use Permit No. PL-2013-0133 ­ The proposed project is categorically exempt
   from environmental review in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
   (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15301, Existing Facilities - Tony Ancheta for Revere Tattoo
   (Applicant) / Kwok Low (Owner) - Request to operate a Tattoo Studio at 214 Harder Road,
   Unit D, in the Neighborhood Commercial (CN) Zoning District.
      Staff Report
      Attachment I - Area & Zoning Map
      Attachment II - Plans

           Assistance will be provided to persons requiring accommodations for disabilities in compliance with the
           Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Persons needing accommodation should contact Sonja Dal Bianco 48
           hours in advance of the meeting at (510) 583-4204, or by using the TDD line for those with speech and hearing
           disabilities at (510) 247-3340.



                                                              2
        Attachment III- Proposed Window Sign
        Attachment IV - Findings
        Attachment V - Conditions of Approval
        Attachment VI-Tattoo Studios Map
        Attachment VII- PD Memo
        Attachment VIII - Emails in Support
        Attachment IX - Letters in Opposition

2. Site Plan Review Application PL-2013-0168 - The proposed project is categorically exempt
   from environmental review in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
   (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15332, Infill Development. Meta Housing Corporation, Aaron
   Mandel (Applicant) / Sean Sullivan (Owner) ­ Request to build 60 units of Senior Housing
   and approximately 6,000 square feet of ground floor retail and office space on a vacant
   property. The project site includes four parcels at 808 A Street, located on the north side of
   the street midblock between Mission Boulevard and Montgomery Street and is located in the
   Central City Commercial (CC-C) Zoning District
       Agenda Report
       Attachment I - Area and Zoning Map
       Attachment II - Development Plans
       Attachment III - Traffic Study
       Attachment IV - Project Comments - (For the Project)
       Attachment V - Project Comments - (Against the Project)
       Attachment VI - Findings for Approval
       Attachment VII - Conditions of Approval

COMMISSION REPORTS:

3. Oral Report on Planning and Zoning Matters

4. Commissioners' Announcements, Referrals

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

5.      April 25, 2013
        May 9, 2013
        May 23, 2013

ADJOURNMENT


PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that if you file a lawsuit challenging any final decision on any public hearing
item listed in this agenda, the issues in the lawsuit may be limited to the issues which were raised at the
City's public hearing or presented in writing to the City Clerk at or before the public hearing. PLEASE
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that the City Council has adopted Resolution No. 87-181 C.S., which
imposes the 90 day deadline set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6 for filing of any lawsuit
challenging final action on an agenda item which is subject to Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5.

NOTE: Materials related to an item on this agenda submitted to the Planning Commission after
distribution of the agenda packet are available for public inspection in the Permit Center, first floor at the
above address. Copies of staff reports for agenda items are available from the Commission Secretary and
on the City's website the Friday before the meeting.


                                                      3
                                                                                         ____1_______




DATE:          July 11, 2013

TO:            Planning Commission

FROM:          Arlynne J. Camire, AICP, Associate Planner

SUBJECT:       Conditional Use Permit No. PL-2013-0133 ­ The Proposed Project is
               Categorically Exempt from Environmental Review in Accordance with the
               California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15301,
               Existing Facilities - Tony Ancheta for Revere Tattoo (Applicant) / Kwok Low
               (Owner) - Request to Operate a Tattoo Studio at 214 Harder Road, Unit D, in the
               Neighborhood Commercial (CN) Zoning District.


RECOMMENDATION

That the Planning Commission finds that the proposed project is categorically exempt from
environmental review in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
guidelines, Section 15301, Existing Facilities, and approves the conditional use permit subject to
the attached findings and conditions of approval.

SUMMARY

The applicant requests approval of a Conditional Use Permit for a tattoo studio in one of four
tenant spaces of a four-unit commercial building located on Harder Road between Franklin and
Donald Avenues (see Attachment I). The studio will employ five tattoo artists, including the
applicant, who has nine years of experience as a tattoo artist specializing in Polynesian and tribal
tattoos. He has also worked as a guest tattoo artist at various tattoo studios, conventions and
events, and has worked at Inkies in the City of Fremont for four years (Attachment II). The
Hayward Police Department staff is recommending approval of this application stating that Mr.
Ancheta is licensed with the Alameda County Department of Environmental Health Services and
possesses a valid Alameda County Body Art Practitioner's Permit (Attachment VII).

BACKGROUND

The site is a 16,342-square-foot property with one 4,270-square-foot building divided into four
tenant spaces. The three existing tenants are MX Donuts, United Palerteria Y Neveria (Ice
Cream Parlor), and Fiesta Auto Insurance. Approval of this Conditional Use Permit would allow
the applicant to operate a tattoo establishment in a vacant 1,100-square-foot space.

To the west, across Franklin Avenue and along Harder Road, are Taqueria El Mezcal, dental
offices, a 7-Eleven, and Grand Gasoline Station and Food Mart (located at Harder and Soto Road




                                                4
intersection). To the south across Harder Road is Huntwood Manor Shopping Center that
contains Mi Pueblo Supermarket, Mac D Liquors, Jackson Hewitt Income Tax Preparation, Fred
Loya Insurance, Frannie's Restaurant, Crown Coin Laundry, Ofelia's Beauty Salon, Cut & Save
Barber Shop, Boost Mobile, Rountable Pizza and Optimum Health. To the east on Harder Road
are single-family homes and Kaulana Na Pua `O Hawaii Dance Studio in the Commercial Office
Zoning District, and Harder Elementary School at the corner of Harder and Whitman Avenues.
To the north are multiple-family and single-family homes in the Medium Density Residential
Zoning District on Franklin and Donald Avenues (see Attachment I).

Staff met with the landlord, who indicated that the commercial space where the proposed tattoo
studio would be located has been empty for one and a half years, and that she hopes that the
proposed tattoo parlor will be allowed to occupy the space. She has stated that after meeting the
applicant and reviewing his business plan, she is supportive of the tattoo studio and sees it as a
good fit for her center. Letters from the property owner and the landlord state that the applicant
has promised to take care of the property and will prohibit loitering. In addition, the other tenants
agree with the opening of the tattoo studio (see Attachment VIII).

DISCUSSION AND STAFF ANALYSIS

Project Description - The applicant, Tony Ancheta, is a former mechanical engineer who worked
in the high-tech industry for over fifteen years. In 2009, he decided to follow his artistic passion
and become a full-time tattoo artist specializing in Polynesian and tribal tattoos. He has worked
as a guest artist at tattoo studios throughout the Bay Area, at tattoo conventions, and is as an
established tattoo artist working for the past four years at Inkies Tattoo Studio in Fremont.
According to Terry Wong, Associate Planner for the City of Fremont, Inkies Tattoo Studio can
be described as high-end since one completed tattoo can range from $300 to over $1000. Also,
according to City of Fremont Police Department Community Engagement Specialist Karen
Blount, a premise history search of Inkies did not reveal any significant police reports, calls for
service, or complaints about the establishment.

In 2010, at the San Francisco Asian Art Museum, Mr. Ancheta was one of two tattoo artists who
created Filipino tribal tattoos as part of the Filipino American History Month Celebration. With
his many years of experience, Mr. Ancheta decided to become a small business owner and open
his own tattoo studio employing four artists. The proposed hours of operation are 9:00 am to
9:00 pm daily. Up to four customers can be accommodated at a time, and according to Mr.
Ancheta, 80 percent of the work will be completed on an appointment-only basis. His rates will
be $120 an hour. The average tattoo will take four hours for each of the three sessions resulting
in a total cost of $1,200 for one tattoo. Mr. Ancheta indicates that many of his clients are
Hayward residents and the four artists who will be working with Mr. Ancheta have family and
friends who are Hayward residents. The applicant has stated that he and the other artists do not
condone illegal tattooing of minors and racist or gang related tattoos, and a recommended
condition of approval prohibits customers who are minors and providing racist or gang-related
tattoos (Attachment V).

According to the applicant, the proposed tattoo studio will have a spa­like atmosphere
characterized by high-quality furnishings, high-quality wood finishes, colors and art commonly

Tattoo Studio
July 11, 2013
                                                                                             Page 2 of 7

                                                 5
associated with Pacific Islander culture (see Attachment II). The applicant has suggested that his
focus on excellent customer service and quality amenities is to ensure that customers have a
memorable experience. The proposed facility will include a customer waiting area and an
adjacent reception area located behind a partition. The four artist stations would be located
behind two partitions to the rear of the customer waiting area. To the rear of the tenant space is a
sterilization room, a unisex restroom, and a storage area (Attachment II). Staff recommends a
condition of approval that requires each tattoo station be equipped with a locker that could be
used by customers to store their personal property. In addition, staff recommends a condition of
approval that requires the business manager to actively monitor the front of the business to
prevent loitering and installation of security cameras to monitor the interior and entrances to the
building.

The applicant intends to install a sign on the façade above the entrance and a window sign
reading "Revere Tattoo, Hayward, CA" (see conceptual window sign design, Attachment III).
The window sign will be limited to cover not more than 25 percent of the window area. The
signs are required to meet Sign Ordinance regulations and be submitted for approval by the
Planning Director prior to installation.

To comply with State requirements, verification that all customers are at least 18 years of age
shall be required by way of valid identification and signature of a standard release form. In
addition, California Code Section 653 shall be posted stating that no persons under the age of 18
years are permitted on the premises (Attachment V).

According to the applicant, each artist would have an average of two customers a day, four
customers could be accommodated at a time, and the average visit would take from four to five
hours. This time period includes preparation and the application of the tattoo.

A shared customer parking lot parking is accessible from Harder Road and Franklin Avenue.
There are 25 parking spaces, including one handicap parking space, available to the four tenants
of the building, which meet the City's Off-Street Parking Regulations and tenants' needs.

County Requirements - In order to operate a tattoo studio in Alameda County, a Body Art
Establishment Permit is required from the Alameda County Department of Environmental
Health. As part of the permit process, the applicant is required to designate a medical waste
disposal company to dispose of the needles used for the procedures. In addition, all tattoo artists
employed by the proposed establishment must provide evidence of immunity of Hepatitis B or
provide a certificate of proof of vaccination as part of the Body Art Practitioner registration
process. As part of the registration process, all applicants must also demonstrate, by
examination, knowledge of basic tattooing techniques, health and safety precautions, and
sanitation and sterilization techniques designed to prevent cross contamination. Furthermore,
completion of a Local Enforcement Agency approved health and safety class is also required.
The applicant has been a licensed practitioner in Alameda County for nine years. The applicant
has received tentative approval for a Body Art Establishment Permit, pending approval of a
Conditional Use Permit from the City of Hayward.



Tattoo Studio
July 11, 2013
                                                                                            Page 3 of 7

                                                6
Other Establishments in Hayward - In addition to the proposed tattoo studio, there are currently
four other approved and licensed tattoo establishments in Hayward: Anchor Bay Tattoo and
Piercing at 22622 Mission Boulevard; Peter's Skin Art Tattooing at 381 Jackson Street; Blazing
Horse Tattoo at 155 Jackson Street; and Twisted Illusions at 555 West Tennyson Road (see map,
Attachment VI). Each of these tattoo studios offers a different skill set and specialized type of
artistry to their customers. According to the applicant, each tattoo is original art, which is a
collaboration between the customer and the tattoo artist, and that each tattoo artist has his own
unique style and specialty. Therefore, the proposed tattoo studio would offer a unique set of
artists to Hayward area residents and customers.

Police Department Comments (Attachment VII) - The Hayward Police Department staff is
recommending approval of this Conditional Use Permit, stating that the applicant is licensed with
the Alameda County Department of Environmental Health Services and possesses a valid
Alameda County Body Art Practitioner's Permit. Since tattoo studios are highly regulated by the
Alameda County Department of Environmental Health, the proposed business will not greatly
impact Police Department resources. The Police Department recommends that security cameras
be installed on the front and the east side of the building to monitor the entrances. In addition,
they recommend posting a "No Loitering" sign on the front and east side of the building to deter
milling around the property. Such recommendations are incorporated as conditions of approval
in Attachment VII.

According to Lt. Jason Martinez, the Hayward Police Department does not receive many calls for
service to the currently operating tattoo studios and there is no evidence that tattoo studios attract
gang members. Lt. Martinez is of the opinion that there is public misconception that there is a
nexus between gang members and tattoo studios. "Many gang members get their tattoos in
prison, during "tattoo parties" at an associate gang member's house who may also be an
unlicensed tattoo "artist", etc." He continues, "Tattoos are so accepted and mainstream these
days that the masses have them and it is a lucrative business for those artists who are talented."

Conditional Use Permit Findings ­ In order for the Conditional Use Permit to be approved, the
following findings must be made. Staff's responses to the findings are below and in Attachment
IV.

A.         The proposed use is desirable for the public convenience or welfare.

           The tattoo establishment is desirable for the public convenience in that residents and
           customers will have more and varied choice from a larger pool of tattoo artists located in
           Hayward. In addition, current customers of the applicant who are residents of Hayward
           will no longer need to travel to Fremont. Furthermore, the tattoo studio will provide a
           unique spa-like experience offering personalized customer service and collaboration with
           each artist to design a unique tattoo based on the customer's design ideas.

B.         The proposed use will not impair the character and integrity of the zoning district
           and surrounding area.

           The proposed tattoo studio will not impair the character and integrity of the adjacent
           commercial businesses and residential zoning district. Tattoo stations will not be visible
Tattoo Studio
July 11, 2013
                                                                                              Page 4 of 7

                                                   7
           from the public right-of-way, nor from the front window of the establishment, since the
           tattoo stations will be located behind partitions. As a condition of approval, "No
           Loitering" signs will be posted on the front and the east side of the building and the
           business manager is required to enforce the prohibition of loitering. At least eighty
           percent of all customers will be by appointment only. Each artist would have an average
           of two customers a day and only four customers can be accommodated at a time. The
           average visit would range from four to five hours. This time period includes preparation
           and the application of the tattoo. Therefore, the traffic generated will be minimal and the
           number of customers will be limited due to the time it takes to do the work and the
           number of tattoo artists that would be working at one time. The parking provided for the
           center meets the City's Off-Street Parking Regulations. Therefore, customers will not
           need to park in the adjacent residential neighborhood. Furthermore, the tattoo studio will
           not be open beyond 9:00 pm, which will help minimize impacts to adjacent residents.


C.         The proposed use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or general
           welfare.

           The applicant is required to obtain a Body Art Establishment permit from Alameda
           County Department of Environmental Health (ACDEH). In addition, each tattoo artists is
           required to be licensed as a Body Art Practitioner. The applicant is a licensed Body Art
           Practitioner, and the proposed tattoo studio will comply with all Alameda County
           Environmental Health Department health and safety standards, including proper handling
           and disposal of medical waste.

           The Hayward Police Department has stated that tattoo studios typically have a low rate of
           service calls and, contrary to public perception, do not attract gangs, require very little
           regulation since such uses are highly regulated by the Alameda County Environmental
           Health Department.

D.         The proposed use is in harmony applicable City policies and the intent and purpose
           of the zoning district involved.

           A tattoo parlor is listed as a personal service and is permitted as a conditional use in the
           Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District. Conditional approval is required to assure
           that this use is permitted where there is a community need, and to assure that the use is in
           harmony with the area and with City policies. The Neighborhood Commercial Zoning
           District is to include products and services primarily represented by convenience goods
           and services purchased frequently. At least eighty percent of the proposed
           establishment's business will be by appointment ­ similar to a beauty shop or other
           similar business that provides personal services on a regular basis. Tattoos are a socially
           acceptable form of adornment and the applicant has established a good reputation.
           Therefore, it is likely that new and repeat customers will return to receive additional
           tattooing from the same artist.




Tattoo Studio
July 11, 2013
                                                                                                Page 5 of 7

                                                   8
Environmental Review - It has been determined that the conditional use permit application is
categorically exempt from environmental review in accordance with the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) guidelines, Section 15301, Existing Facilities.

PUBLIC OUTREACH

On April 30, 2013, an Official Notice of Receipt of Application was sent to every property owner
and occupant within 300 feet of the subject site, as noted on the latest assessor's records. Staff
received one call from a resident who stated she lives near the project. The resident stated
opposition because of the "type of people that it would attract." Furthermore, she felt that
children should not walk by the shop and it would be a negative influence on children.

Staff has received twelve letters in support of the proposed business from clients, a relative,
Hayward residents, and associates of the applicant. The letters state that Mr. Ancheta is
professional and ethical, consistently gives excellent customer service, takes pride in his work,
has integrity, is responsible and is a family man who successfully balances family and career.
All are of the opinion that this business will be an asset to Hayward (Attachment VIII).

Staff also received three emails in opposition with concerns expressed regarding the influence on
local children, who apparently walk by the retail center on their way to and from Harder
Elementary School, the safety of the neighborhood, and the possibility of loitering (Attachment
IX). As a condition of approval, "No Loitering" signs will be posted and the office manager is
required to actively enforce the no loitering requirement (Attachment V). In addition, the act of
applying the tattoo will not be seen from the storefront windows, since the tattoo stations will be
located behind partitions; only the waiting area would be visible from the windows.

On June 28, an Official Notice of this public hearing was sent to every property owner and
occupant within 300 feet of the subject site, as noted on the latest assessor's records. Staff met
with a resident of Franklin Avenue who supports approval of the tattoo studio since there will be
surveillance cameras in the parking lot and "No Loitering" signs will be posted. He expressed a
concern with noise, but didn't feel that it would be a problem with a 9:00 pm closing time. The
hours of operation of MX Donuts are 4:00 am to 4:00 pm daily. The hours of operation of the
Ice Cream Parlor are 10:00 am to 10:00 pm daily.

SCHEDULE

The Planning Commission decision begins a 10-day appeal period of the Commission's action to
the City Council (or call-up to Council by a Council member), which would expire at 5:00 p.m.
on July 22, 2013. If approved and there is no appeal filed within that time period, the applicant
may proceed with efforts to open the business. If denied and no appeal is filed, the decision of
the Planning Commission would be final.


Prepared by:    Arlynne J. Camire, AICP




Tattoo Studio
July 11, 2013
                                                                                            Page 6 of 7

                                                9
Recommended by:




_____________________________________
Ned Thomas, AICP
Planning Manager


Approved by:




_____________________________________
David Rizk, AICP
Development Services Director


Attachments:

           Attachment I      Area and Zoning Map
           Attachment II     Plans, Photographs and Project Description
           Attachment III    Proposed Window Sign
           Attachment IV     Findings for Approval
           Attachment V      Conditions of Approval
           Attachment VI     Map of Hayward Tattoo Studios
           Attachment VII    Hayward Police Department Memo and Email
           Attachment VIII   Emails and Letters in Support
           Attachment IX     Emails and Letter in Opposition




Tattoo Studio
July 11, 2013
                                                                          Page 7 of 7

                                           10
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment I
          Area & Zoning Map
                                                                                                                                                                            d
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
  RS                                                  RS                                                                                                                 yR
                                                                           Ave                                                                                       d




                                           Mu
                                                                      lp                                                   d                                      Co
              ve                                                   Cu                                             rR




                                             ir
          l pA                                                                            RS                 ust
                                                                                                                 e




                                             St
       Cu                                                                                                   C
                                      RS                                                                                                                                             RM
                                                                                                                                                                                RS




                                                                                                                                                                    Su
                                                                                                                                                                      ble
                                                                                                                                                                         tt
                                                                                                                                                     RS




                                                                                                                                                                            Dr
                                                                                                                                         Le
                                                                                                                                            wi
                                                                                                                                              sD
              RS




                                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                                   RS




                                                                                                            La
                                                                                                               nd
                                                                                                                  e
                                                                                          RMB4




                                                                                                                 rA
                                                                                                                   ve
                                                               RM




                                                                                        Do
                                              Fr




                                                                                         na
                                                                                                                                                             Rd
                                                an




                                                                                                                                                        th




                                                                                            ld
                                                  kli



                                                                                                                                                       e
                                                                                                                                                    Wy




                                                                                             Av
RS
                                                      n     Av




                                                                                               e
       ve                                                                                                                                                                       RS
                                                               e




   n dA                                                                          RMB4
Lu                              RMB4
                                                                                                                                                             Harder
       RS                                                                                                                                                    School
                    So




                                                                            SITE
                      to
                        Rd




                                                                                           CO         RM
            RMB4                                                                                                                   CO
                                                                   RM                                  CO
                                                                                         CN
                                                                           CN
                                             CN CO
                                                                                                 Rd
     RHB7                    CN                                                         Harder
                                                                                                                                                                    RS


                                                                                                                                                                  n St
                                                                                                                                                      Eastma
                                        PD
                                                  Mo
                                                     cin
                                                            eA




                                                                                                                     Eastman Ct




                                                                                                                                                                  RS
                                                              ve




                                                                                   CN
             e St
Broo   kston


                                   PD
                        Me




                                              Tarragon St
                         ad




                                                                                                                                                                                      RS
                           ow
                             m
                             ist




                    PD                                              CO
                                 Dr




                                                                                                                                  RS
         Gu




                                                            PD
            s hu
              e




        PD
                  St




                                                                   RS                        n St                                                            RS
 RS                                                                                 Newto



 PL-2013-0133 CUP                                                                                                           Zoning Classi cations
                                                                                                                            RESIDENTIAL
 Address:                                                                                                                   RHB7        High Density Residential, min lot size 750 sqft
 214 Harder Road                                                                                                            RM          Medium Density Residential, min lot size 2500 sqft
                                                                                                                            RMB4        Medium Density Residential, min lot size 4000 sqft
 Applicant:                                                                                                                 RS          Single Family Residential, min lot size 5000 sqft
 Tony Ancheta                                                                                                               COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                            CN          Neighborhood Commercial
 Owner:                                                                                                                     CO          Commercial O ce
 Kwok Low
                                                                                                                            OTHER
                                                                                                                            PD          Planned Development
 0          100        200   300
                               Feet

                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                 April, 2013
                                                                                             11
                                                                       Attachment II




                                       To:

                   The City of Hayward Planning Department




                                    Subject:

              Request for a Conditional Permit for a Tattoo Facility




                                      From:

                                 Tony Ancheta

                                 Revere Tattoos

                           214 Harder Road, Unit 0
                          Hayward, California 94544

                           Cell Phone: 408.829.0085

                      Email: unitedskinartists@yahoo.com




Page 1 of 3


                                                                                  1
                                        12
                                                                            Attachment II


Introduction

My name is Tony Ancheta and I am a professional full time tattoo artist currently
working at lnkies Tattoo Studio in the City of Fremont. Prior to working at lnkies, I was
a Mechanical Engineer working in the high-tech world for over 15 years while also
guest-spotting at different tattoo shops and working the tattoo conventions on the
weekends. In early 2009, I decided to hang-up the corporate shirt and tie to pursue my
love for the body art and converted to a full time tattoo artist. In the many years of
tattooing plus working at lnkies, I have attained best practices and established a wide
variety of clients from all around the bay. Without a doubt, the next step for me is to
open my own tattoo shop. I have been searching for spaces and places everywhere
and I knew that when I spotted the "For Lease" sign on 214 Harder Road , Unit D, this is
the place for me. Many of my established clients, are from Hayward, Tri-city areas, and
from across the bay which makes this location ideal with the easy access from major
bridge and freeways (880, 580, 92).

Tattoos have definitely evolved and become more mainstream and popular among
Americans. Any stigma surrounding the ancient body art has long ago faded. Business
people, parents pushing strollers and college students are as likely to sport "tats" these
days versus the traditional stereotype-clientele of military personnel or bikers. I
specialize in Polynesian tattoos. The legacy of Polynesian tattoo began over 2000 years
ago and is as diverse as the people who wear them. Some of my current established
clients are business owners, Silicon Valley executives, police officers, teachers,
professional athletes, fireman , doctors, college students, parents, grandparents. A
typical custom-designed tattoo piece can take anywhere from an hour to a full day
session and can cost anywhere from $80-$1200.

Mission

Revere Tattoo wants to elevate the tattoo experience in the city of Hayward by providing
quality custom tattoos in an upscale, high-end style environment. Professional, talented
and established artists will provide custom original artwork in a bright, safe, and clean
working atmosphere.

Keys to Success:

   1. Providing the highest quality of tattoos and customer satisfaction will be the main
      focus to maintain repeat customers and attract new ones.
   2. Making the health and care of customers and tattoos a top priority to ensure the
      safety of the customers, artists, and business.
   3. Working with talented artists and encouraging their expression and freedom



Page 2 of 3


                                                                                        2
                                            13
                                                                              Attachment II


The Proposal

I would like to open Revere Tattoos at 214 Harder Road , Unit D, Hayward, California.
Although there are a handful of established tattoo shops in Hayward already, I want to
open the first ever high-end tattoo studio in this city where people can come get art work
in a very nice , clean and upscale "spa-like" environment. On Friday, April 51h , Arthur
Surdilla from the Alameda County Health Department visited the location and has
provided the additional requirements needed which I included in the plan layout. Arthur
has been very valuable in giving guidance even more so that he is familiar with the
current tattoo shop where I work and it's very high standards. I am attaching along with
this proposal a copy of the plan. It shows all stations, sinks, trash cans, biohazard trash
cans, sharps containers, and more. The Health Department will issue an approval after
they come and do their final inspection as soon as the City permit is issued .



        Expecting how many Artist working: 5

        Hours of Operation: 9AM- 9PM

        Hourly Rate: $120/hour



Attached is a professionally drawn plan layout required by the Hayward planning
department.

Also attached are pictures of lnkies Tattoo Studio in Fremont where I currently work.
My plan is to create a similar environment and even better space for Revere Tattoos.

Revere Tattoos will not condone nor participate in any kind of illegal tattooing of minors
or racial and gang affiliated tattoos.

Please feel free to contact me if there are any additional questions or concerns. I am
looking forward to providing high-end quality tattoos in the Heart of the Bay and being
part of this great community.




Page 3 of 3


                                                                                             3
                                             14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Attachment II




                                                                                         GENERAL NOTES                                                                                                                   PROJECT DATA                                                       LEGEND

                                       FRANKL   N       S   T   R E E T                                'S ARE .,._TENDED
                                                                                         THESE Pl..AJ'\.                        ~="OR   USE Of\-Y O"l THf. LOT FOR WH'CH i HEY 'N!:::AE
                                                                                         0 "'S GNED THESE O~A\<'· NGS ARE NOT NIENOEO TO at: COMPREH E"~$1VE A -.:.D IT SHALL BE
                                                                                                          6 .1.JY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO :O..
                                                                                         Tt-i-E RESPC-'\;$1                              ' OTI"'Y THE O WNER OF AN Y NECESSARY
                                                                                         c...AR:PCA.,...C»<S OR \400·FCAr.QNS.

                                                                                         ALL Y.ORK co~.JNE :;TF .J \Vfi"H THE PROJECT SHAU BE 00,-...E IN A
                                                                                         ;N ACCOODP. NCE 1/'liTr\ THE -RADm ONALLY AND LEGALLY 07~ 'BEST ACCEPTABLE PRACnCC
                                                                                                                                                                           PROFES~          v.ANNi:'"R


                                                                                         wr:H THE TAADE ,...VOLVEO. AODil'lONAI...LY ALL WORKS 5riftLL BE f'Oi COMF'I..J.I:INCE 1MT11 ACCEPTABU:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER:       L:.s.A LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2, 4 HARDER ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HAYVYAAD, CAL ."'O"'\:IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (S:50) 430·1863
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Coo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISllNG WAilS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEW PARTITIC»>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DUP!IX RECEPTAa.E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OUP!IX GROUND FAULT INTER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SJNQE 1'().£ S\llll:H


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SITE I NFORMATION:
                                                                                         CODES AL\,{) TAADE STA.'·m ARDS W H..CH GOVER."'l EACH PHASEOF Y..OOK INCL UC<"'G BlJ." NOTG'\ot?TEO                                                                                                SJ-I!Y             J.-WAY S\IITCH
                                                                                         TO TtoE Uf't,. F OAM BL:~~o-NG COD E (l.SC) UN FORM AJECHAI\iCAI.. C00E {l..N.c} U ~1FC>f4M ARE CODE NFC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         214 HAAOER ROAD                                                        m.EI'tiC»>E WAll JAO<
           Q                                                                             j'j.jE "lAT'O:oo.AL EL ECTRiCAL CODE {NCC) A.V EA:CAN C O.'IfCRE:'"E o..ISTrrvrE {NO') N.Ar.t;)l't.AL PLI.NatNG CODE (NPQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HAY\.YA RD, CAUFOF;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - .M                              _,
                                                                                         CA.. !=QAI\. A STATE BUILC'NG CODE P.N O ALL APPUCABLE LOCAL COOES AND L[Giv_ATI()N                                                             EXIS"TNG USE· BARBER SHOP                                              Tn£\1SIC»> WAll JAO<


      0
          '{"


                                                    b
                                                                                         TN: 0 \-\ "'-EA SHAI..L BE RESPOf\i.."i aLE TO NOTIFY TH E "::l::S 'CNEA O F ANY l7'4USUA.l. UNFORSEt!"i STRUGn..!RAL
                                                                                         co:..,;c, r ONS OlSCREPA"-CIES OR CHANGES FROM Tt1E PLANS BEFORE PROCESDNG WTTH i}.IE C<::f.APL.ETION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PAOPOSED USE: TATTOO PAR!.Ofl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONSTRUCTION TYPE ~ V...fn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OCCUPAN CY· M                                      +                   CEIIJHG UGHT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            !-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1\,'Q.   OF ROORS: 1                                                    RE<BSIED UGHTIHG
                                                                                                                T RACTOR SHALL BE RES ?ONS18LE FOR ve\IFY,NG F.a
                                                                                         OF THE ~OJECT THE CO/I.t                                                                           o W EASUREMfNiS ~RE
                                                    _j                                                                                                                                                                                  NO . OF EXITS. 2
    0::                                                                   w
                                                                          z
                                                                                                                ~D FABRICATtr..G :TEM S.
                                                                                         OR:)EP.lNG M ATERIALS A.                                                                                                                       FIRE SPA Nt<l...ER NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SliM OETECRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT AREA: ~ 19,BC   O SOFT
                                                    0                     :J             ADEQUA TE 5\Jr>ERVIS.Q ~ A."<! PERIOOiC ~!"'S?ECTIONS OUA:NG 1 H( CONSTRUCT1,"'J(l ~SE
                                                    z                                    :s R ECO'...IIMENDEV- -..,:r: O W"'EFI SHALL BE RESPONS.BLE TO ENS~E THAT · ~SPEC'!'~ AJ-.C;; OR S.uPE.RV S: QN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO TAL BLDG. A F£A. ~ 1020 SQ FT


                                                    S2
                                                    II
                                                                          ~
                                                                          w
                                                                                         IS PFIOV!DED BY QUAL FED           PE.:~SON-G.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCOPE OF WORK:                                                                      WECHANJCAL 'r9JT
                                                                          ll.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fl..lJOOf5(lNT UGH
                                                    <(                    0              TH ESE PLA;'\S AAE NOT C QNS.OEA!::l CQt-..~PLF: E Ao'\,'0 REAOV            f'OA CONSTRUCOO~ IS ReCC"8'~ -..oEO                                 I~S":"ALL   NEW M OVEABLE PP.::ni'QN;.5
                                                    o._                   a:                                                                                                                                                            11\.STAI...l. r-.~ S:"\:JI'S />JIJO V.AI'.iT'oES.

                                                    @
                                                                          ll.
                                                                                         l'~E oY'if'·o
                                                                                                     ER 6hALL 8E AE:SPOI'.S.BLE TO ( "'SURE THAT ·~sPECTION
                                                                                         iS PROVDED BY QU.N.:" 13D PERSONS.
                                                                                                                                                                           1\.'\Dl OR SL. I-"ERVIS.oto~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INSTALL NEVI WAL:. L~S                              <jq         SE't£R PI!'E AND WATER VAL'<f:S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +
                                                                                         1T IS THE     R ES PO~.B'..i':Y   OF THE CON'TRAC'!'OA TO CHECi< A.
                                                                                                                                                           '\tO 'v'I:
                                                                                                                                                                    " 'RFY ALL OIMENS ONS
                                                                                         M :l CONQ;~ I ONS '.\i.:J<CAT EO O"oo TH ESE ORA\f\~1'\0S p.J-1) MAKE J(NQWN A~Y O SCREPA."CCES                                                                                                    &.                  FlRE EXTINruSiiER
                                                                                         PR:O~   "'0   CO~ "ACI\iC NU      WORK.




                (E) PARKING LOT




                                                                                                   PLAN NOTES
                SITE       PLAN                                                                  [)          '-STA<.L r--.'F..W S;Nt< A\IOVA."'4"'Y

                SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"                                                             0           Ai·.J\4S-ALL. Gl...:r< AT (E) PL_...,Bif'..
                                                                                                                                                       U

                                                                                                 @)          ~TALL ,.,.E,-1 4' ,_, GH PAATlTION                                                                      PROPOSED             FLOOR                         PLAN
                                                                                                 0           "iSTAU . N EW c..a-.e:~S W' DOOR &. DRAWERS.                                                               SCALE: 1/4" =1'-0"                                                       (E)TRASH
                                                                                                  5.          ~57A...L ,.,.EW   WA-Ll G Hi S     @   STER.'..IZ " G AOOM                                                                                                                         ENCLOSURE
                                                                                                  ~          NSTAl...L t..f;W V.Ot-> St~K AAO M0PH.6H.>r__MS ,&SQVE        S.~K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REVERE TATTOO SlUD"O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING FLOOR                                  PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2-'4 HAF\:lE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ' l F\')AD
                V ICINITY MAP                                                   ELEVATION VIEW                                                                                                                              SCALE: 1/4" =1 ' - o·                                                   HA.'·NARD, CAL.IFCJNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..OCR PL..A.NS ,S .TE P'..AN PROJEcr OATA   ~-
                NOT TO SCALE                                                    NOT TO SCALE                                                                                                                                                                                                        G !:N l:AAL NOTES A ;-..D U::GE~         ,; J<!~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                         15
L
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Attachment II


                                                                                                                                                                1        RECEPTION DESK
                                                                                                                                                                2        STORAGE CABINETS
                                                                                                                                                                3        ARTIST CHAIR
                                                                                                                                                                4        ARMREST
                                                                                                                                                                5        LAMP
                                                                                                                                                                6        COUNTER
                                                                                                                                                                7        CUSTOMER BED/CHAIR
                                                                                                                                                                8        SHARPS CONTAINER
                                                                                                                                                                9        WORK STATION TRAY
                                                                                                                                                               10        HANDWASH SINK
                                                                                                                                                               11        LIQUID SOAP


                                    REVERE TATTOO                                                                                                              12        PAPER TOWEL DISPENSER
                                                                                                                                                               13        RESTROOM
                                                                                                                                                               14        BIO SINK
                                                                                                                                                               15        STERILIZATION ROOM
                                                                                                                                                               16        AUTOCLAVE
                                                      SITE PLAN                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                                                                                         ULTRA SONIC MACHINE
                                                                                                                                                                         WAITING ROOM
                                                                                                                                                               19        MOP SINK
                                                                                                                                                               20        TRASH CAN
                                                                                                                                                               21        FIRE EXTINGUISHER



                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                       L
                                                                     COUNTER                                              COUNTER
                                                                                                                                       ®                                                  OS
                               ~D
                                                                                                           _.....--..._                                                                                -~




                                     RECEPTION AREA    '--   .
                                                                 )   STATION# 1                                           STATION# 3
                                                                                                                                           8,                                  (E) RESTROOM


                               G)                     @=J
                                                                     0 oD                                             D                                                           @
                                                                                                    DJ 0
                                                                                                                                                           STERILIZING
                                                                                                                                                             ROOM



                                                  Cl                     II                         ~~                                                         G)
                                                                     0                                                                                                                        @)
                                                                                                                                                                                               H


                                                                                  o( l ®I lo<D
            WAITING AREA


ENTRY
                 @              ~
                                DJoO
                                                                                               ~~
                                                                                                                                                             FOYER

             I             I                                                      G)---@::J
                                   D
        ~                  ~        STATION# 2
                                     COUNTER                                       ~          STATION# 4
                                                                                               COUNTER             ~-- ----®
                                                                                                                                                STORAGE
                                                                                                                                                CABINETS   0
                                                                                                                                                                                 --0--
                                                                                                                                                                                  / i\



                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                              16
     Attachment II




                6
17
     Attachment II




                7
18
     Attachment II




                8
19
     Attachment II




                9
20
     Attachment II




               10
21
                                                                                                                                    Attachment II

                                     Tattoo and Piercing Release Form
In compliance with California State laws on Tattooing and Body Piercings1 only persons 18 years of age or older
may obtain a tattoo, regardless of parental consent. A minor Is allowed to receive a body piercing if a parent or
legal guardian Is present. Proper Identification must be shown. All lines must be filled in legibly.

·   I am requesting that a tattoo or piercing be performed on me by a staff member of lnkies Tattoo Studio. I understand that wherever possible,
    materials used in the procedure are single-use only and properly discarded after use. I am aware that any items that are re-usable are sterilized in
    an autoclave before each use. Initials _ _ ._

·   I acknowledge that I will be given a written set of aftercare instructions. By signing this agreement I agree that I have been given every
    opportunity to ask questions about the procedure, aftercare, or any other concerns I may have. Getting an infection is always a possibility as a
    result of getting a piercing or tattoo, particularly in the event that I do not take proper care of it. I agree to carefully follow the instructions that I
    have been given while it is healing. Initials _ __

·   I have advised the artist or piercer of any and all allergies I may have; especially to latex, soaps, or medications. It is not possible for the staff of
    lnkies Tattoo Studio to determine if I might have an allergic reaction to the pigments or processes used during the tattooing or piercing procedure.
    I agree to accept the risk that such a reaction is possible. Initia l s - - -

·   I do not have a heart condition, epilepsy, diabetes, hemophilia, or anemia. I do not have any diseases that may be transmitted by blood such as
    HIV, hepatitis, or any other condition. Initials _ __

·   I am not pregnant or nursing, and do not suffer from medical conditions such as, but not limited to: keloid or hyper tropic, scarring, psoriasis,
    wounds, lesions, moles, or birth marks at the site to be pierced or tattooed. Initials _ __

·   To my knowledge, I do not have any physical, mental, or medical impairment or disability which might affect my wellbeing as a direct result of my
    decision to be pierced or tattooed. Initials---

·   I am not under the influence of any drugs or alcohol and that obtaining this piercing or tattoo is my choice alone, and will result in a permanent
    change in my appearance. I am aware that tattoos are permanent Initials _ __

Iauthorize a staff member of lnkies Tattoo Studio to perform a piercing or tattoo on me and in consideration of doing so, I hereby release and
hold harmless lnkies Tattoo Studio, it's owner, and any staff from any and all liabilities, claims, demands, or legal actions, in law or in equity, which
Ior my heirs have or might have now or hereinafter arising from or connected in any way with my body piercing or tattoo.

By signing this document, Icertify under penalty of perjury that I am 18 years of age, and acknowledge that I have read and
understand all portions of this document and that I agree to be legally bound by lt.

Tattoo/Piercing: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _

Name: __________ _ _ _ _ _ _ ______ _ __ _ ___________ AgeToday: _________________

Address: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____

City: ____________________________________                              State:-- - - - --               Zip: - - - -- - -- - -- - - - - - - -

Phone Number: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 008: - - - - - - - T o d a y Date: - - - - - - - - - - -------

Client Signature: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 0#: - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

If Minor, Signature of
ParenULegaiGuardian: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ IO#: - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -

Deposit Amount: - -- - -- - - --Total Cost: - - - - - - - - - - - - - Artist/Piercer: ___ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

Email: ____ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __

Notes: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ ___________________~--
                                                                                                                                                       Rev.2_1109




                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                  22
     Attachment II




               12
23
(
         Attachment II




                   13
    24
ArtSlant- October 3rd, 2010 11:00 AM-4:00PM, Asian Art Museum, Eli Africa, Floran ... Page 1
                                                                              Attachment   IIof2



                                Ian
   Asian Art Museum

   f Event   Map      Reviews      Comments


      Exhibition Detail
     Group Show
     Filipino American History Month
     Celebration at the Asian Art
     Museum
      Asian Art Museum
      200 Larkin St.
      San Francisco, CA 94102




                                                                   Christian Cabuay, Someday My Love WI/I Come
     October 3rd, 201011:00 AM-4:00PM                              @Courtesy of the Artist and Asian Art Museum




     >ARTISTS
      Eli Africa                                                    Jame s Garcia
      Florante Aguilar                                              Jason Magabo Perez
      Christian Cabuay                                              Migue l "Bounce" Perez
      Christopher de Leon                                           Ron Quesada
      A leks Figueroa                                               Aimee Suzara
      Arvin Flores



     #

     > QUICK FACTS
      EVENT TYPE:          Other

         WEBSITE:      http ://www.asianart.org/

      NEIGHBORHOOD:             Union Square/Civic Center

      EMAIL:       members@asianart org

      PHONE:        415.581.3500

      OPEN              Tue-Wed, Fri-Sun 10-5; Thu (Jan-O ct) 10-9: Thu
      HOURS:            (Nov-Dec) 10-5; closed Mon

         TAGS:     periormance, filipino, tattoos, film, music, painting

      COST:      FREE admiSSIOn courtesy of Target·




     > DESCRIPTION
     Filipino American History Month
     Filipino Journeys through American History and Art
     Target Sunday·, October 3
     11 00 am-4:00 pm
     Museum-wide
     FREE admission courtesy of Target·

     This year's celebration explores Filipino journeys through American history and art. There will be a focus on early sea
     trade connections between the Philippines and California, how they formed our Filipino American communities, and how
     they shaped artistic production in Asia and the Americas. Highlights include music, artist displays and demonstrations,
     films, talks by visiting scholars, and fun activities for all ages!

     Read the bios of participating Artists and Presenters.

     See photos of past celebrations.
     *Target First Free Sundays-free general admission on the f1rst Sunday of every month and the famil y programs offered on tha t
     day-is made possible by Target. Free admission is granted on a first~come , first~ served basis. Due to capacity restrictions,
     admission ls not guaranteed.

     Sponsored by the Bank of American Foundation



                                                                                                 14
                                                    25
http://www.artslant.com/sf/events/show/ 129472-filipino-american-history-month-celebrati.. . 6/20/2013
ArtS Iant - October 3rd, 2010 11 :00 AM - 4 :00 PM, Asian Art Museum, Eli Africa, Floran... Page 2
                                                                                     Attachment  II of 2

        program Schedule

        Explore and Particip ate
        Taste the flavors of Filipino food.truck, Senor S1s1
                                                           g, with items like sisig (pork) tacos and rice plates Front Curb of Museum
        for purchase, and check out a Jeepney, a creatively re-purposed military vehicle and popular form of 11 am-3 pm
        transport in the Philippines.

        Watch master tattoo artists, led by Aleks Figueroa of Dream Jungle Tattoo, with Tony Ancheta of       South Court
        lnkies Tattoo Studio, in action creating tribal tattoos for the contemporary Filipino D1
                                                                                               aspora. Joel   12 noon-3 pm
        Barraquiel Tan and Alleluia Panis will discuss the symbolism in this art form from 1 pm-2 pm .        (Talk@ 1 pm)

        Meet Artist Arvin Flores, view his abstract paintings, and discuss his creative process.              North Court
                                                                                                              12 noon-4 pm
        Meet Artist Christian Cabuay , view his artwork influenced by the ancient Philippine Baybay in, and   North Court
        create your own pin to take home w1th his des1gns.                                                    12 noon- 2 pm

        See Kulayan Painters, Christopher de Leon, James (gaNyan) Garcia, and Miguel "Bounce" Perez 1n North Court
        action, creating new work before your eyes.                                                    1 pm--4 pm

       Hop on a FREE bus to Thacher Gallery at University of San Francisco to view the special exhibition, Front Curb of Museum.
       Galleons and Globalization: California Missions and the Pacific Rim, with tours by scholars Corazon First bus leaves museum at
       Alvina, Rene Javellana, and Gallery Director, Thomas Lucas, SJ.                                     3:30pm and last bus returns
                                                                                                           from USF to Civic Center at
                                                                                                           5:00pm.
       Listen and Discover
       Watch short films by local Filipino artists.                                                        Resource Room

       Hear opening remarks for this exci ting day from Consul General of the Philippines Marciano Paynor, Sam sung Hall
       Jr., Asian Art Museum Director Jay Xu, Asian Art Museum Commissioner Carmen Colet and others 11 am- 11 30 am

       Groove to the sounds of Filipino electronic music artist Ron Quesada and Kul1ntron1
                                                                                         ca.                  Samsung Hall
                                                                                                              11:30 am -12 noon
       EnJOY Jason Magabo Perez performing excerpts from The Passion of El Hulk Hoganctto.                    Samsung Hall
                                                                                                              12:30 pm-1 pm
       Listen to con temporary writers, Barbara Jane Reyes and Prof. Daniel Gonzales, read their own work Education Studios
       and the writings of Filip1
                                no writers: AI Robles, Helen Toribio, and Cartes Bulosan.                 1 pm-2 pm

       Li sten to contemporary poets, Karen Llagas and Aimee Suzara , read their own work and the wri tings Education Studios
       of Filipino writers AI Robles, Helen Toribio, and Carlos Bulosan.                                      2 pm-3 pm

       Listen to scholars Corazon Alvina and Rene Javellana. Alvina will discuss the intersections of food    Samsung Hall
       and art while Javellana's topic is "Art Challenges the Status Quo: Philippine Art and Social Change." 1:30 pm-2 30 pm

       Enjoy the beautiful music of T he Florante Aguilar Music Ensemble as they perform excerpts             Samsung Hall
       from Lalawig an-A Contemporary Tagalog Song Cycle.                                                     3 pm-3:30 pm

       Step into the Galleries
       View special displays from local Filipino community organizations.                                     Loggia

       Focus on th e Philippines Gallery Tours                                                                Meet at the Info Desk
                                                                                                              12 noon & 2 pm
       Storytelling Filipino Stories                                                                          Meet at the Info Desk
                                                                                                              1 pm




Copyright © 2006-2012 by ArtSiant, Inc. All images and con tent remain the © of their rightful owners




                                                                                                                                            15
                                                                                                   26
http://www .artslant.com/sf/events/show/ 1294 72-filipino-american-history-month -eel e brati ...                                        6/20/2013
     Attachment III




                 1
27
                                                                                   Attachment IV


                                FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

                    Conditional Use Permit Application No. PL-2013-0133
                        Tony Ancheta for Revere Tattoo (Applicant)
                                    Kwok Low (Owner)
                                     214 Harder Road

                               Request to operate a tattoo studio

     The proposed project is Categorically Exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
     (CEQA) guidelines, pursuant to Section 15301, Existing Facilities.

A.      The proposed use is desirable for the public convenience or welfare.

        The tattoo establishment is desirable for the public convenience in that residents and
        customers will have more and varied choice from a larger pool of tattoo artists located in
        Hayward. In addition, current customers of the applicant who are residents of Hayward
        will no longer need to travel to Fremont. Furthermore, the tattoo studio will provide a
        unique spa-like experience offering personalized customer service and collaboration
        with each artist to design a unique tattoo based on the customer's design ideas.

B.      The proposed use will not impair the character and integrity of the zoning district
        and surrounding area.

        The proposed tattoo studio will not impair the character and integrity of the adjacent
        commercial businesses and residential zoning district. Tattoo stations will not be visible
        from the public right-of-way, nor from the front window of the establishment, since the
        tattoo stations will be located behind partitions. As a condition of approval, "No
        Loitering" signs will be posted on the front and the east side of the building and the
        business manager is required to enforce the prohibition of loitering. At least eighty
        percent of all customers will be by appointment only. Each artist would have an average
        of two customers a day and only four customers can be accommodated at a time. The
        average visit would range from four to five hours. This time period includes preparation
        and the application of the tattoo. Therefore, the traffic generated will be minimal and
        the number of customers will be limited due to the time it takes to do the work and the
        number of tattoo artists that would be working at one time. The parking provided for the
        center meets the City's Off-Street Parking Regulations. Therefore, customers will not
        need to park in the adjacent residential neighborhood. Furthermore, the tattoo studio
        will not be open beyond 9:00 pm, which will help minimize impacts to adjacent
        residents.


C.      The proposed use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or general
        welfare.

        The applicant is required to obtain a Body Art Establishment permit from Alameda
        County Department of Environmental Health (ACDEH). In addition, each tattoo artists


                                                                                                 1
                                                28
                                                                                   Attachment IV


     is required to be licensed as a Body Art Practitioner. The applicant is a licensed Body
     Art Practitioner, and the proposed tattoo studio will comply with all Alameda County
     Environmental Health Department health and safety standards, including proper
     handling and disposal of medical waste.

     The Hayward Police Department has stated that tattoo studios typically have a low rate
     of service calls and, contrary to public perception, do not attract gangs, require very little
     regulation since such uses are highly regulated by the Alameda County Environmental
     Health Department.

D.   The proposed use is in harmony applicable City policies and the intent and purpose of
     the zoning district involved.

     A tattoo parlor is listed as a personal service and is permitted as a conditional use in the
     Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District. Conditional approval is required to assure
     that this use is permitted where there is a community need, and to assure that the use is
     in harmony with the area and with City policies. The Neighborhood Commercial
     Zoning District is to include products and services primarily represented by convenience
     goods and services purchased frequently. At least eighty percent of the proposed
     establishment's business will be by appointment ­ similar to a beauty shop or other
     similar business that provides personal services on a regular basis. Tattoos are a socially
     acceptable form of adornment and the applicant has established a good reputation.
     Therefore, it is likely that new and repeat customers will return to receive additional
     tattooing from the same artist.




                                                                                                  2
                                               29
                                                                                     Attachment V


                                CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

                    Conditional Use Permit Application No. PL-2013-0133
                        Tony Ancheta for Revere Tattoo (Applicant)
                                    Kwok Low (Owner)
                                     214 Harder Road

                               Request to operate a tattoo studio

Use Permit Application No. PL-2013-0133 is approved subject to the conditions listed below.
This permit becomes void three years after the effective date of approval, unless the business has
been established in accordance with these conditions of approval, or a time extension of this
application is approved. All conditions shall we met prior occupancy of the building and prior to
the issuance of a business license. A request for a one-year extension, approval of which is not
guaranteed, must be submitted to the Planning Division 15 days prior to July 22, 2014.

If a building permit is issued for construction of improvements authorized by the use permit
approval, said approval shall be void two years after issuance of the building permit, or three
years after approval of the application, whichever is later, unless the construction authorized by
the building permit has been substantially completed or substantial sums have been expended in
reliance upon the use permit approval.

General

1.     The permittee shall assume the defense of and shall pay on behalf of and hold harmless
       the City, its officers, employees, volunteers and agents from and against any or all loss,
       liability, expense, claim costs, suits and damages of every kind, nature and description
       directly or indirectly arising from the performance and action of this permit.

2.     A copy of the conditions of approval for the conditional use permit must be kept on the
       premises of the establishment and posted in a place where it may readily be viewed by
       the general public.

3.     The tattoo studio and each tattoo artist shall meet all of the requirements, health and
       safety standards, and proper handling and disposal of medical waste as required by the
       Alameda County Department of Environmental Health as specified in the "General
       Provisions for Body Art (Tattooing), Body Piercing and Permanent Cosmetics." The
       business owner shall obtain an annual Body Art Establishment permit. Each tattoo artist
       shall register annually as a tattoo practitioner. The permits shall be presented to the
       Planning Director prior to the onset of business in the City of Hayward.

4.     The applicant shall maintain a valid City of Hayward Business License.

5.     The applicants shall post a sign at the entrance that states, "No Persons Under Age of 18
       Years Permitted."



                                                                                                     1

                                                 30
                                                                                     Attachment V


6.    The applicants shall post California Penal Code 653 which reads "Every person who
      tattoos or offers to tattoo a person under the age of 18 years is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      As used in this section, to "tattoo" means to insert pigment under the surface of the skin
      of a human being, by pricking with a needle or otherwise, so as to produce an indelible
      mark or figure visible through the skin. This section is not intended to apply to any act of
      a licensed practitioner of the healing arts performed in the course of his practice" in
      unobstructed view to customers.

7.    The applicants shall post the City of Hayward business license, Alameda County
      Department of Environmental Health permits, and the California Department of Health
      Certificate in clear unobstructed view to the public.

8.    To the satisfaction of the Police Department, post the appropriate health warning within
      the customer areas of business.

9.    To the satisfaction of the Hayward Police Department, "No Loitering" signs shall be
      posted on the front and the east side of the building on the exterior walls of the tattoo
      studio.

10.   The business manager shall actively monitor the front of the business to prevent loitering.

11.   To the satisfaction of the Hayward Police Department, provide security cameras installed
      along the front and east side of the building to monitor the entrance and adjacent parking
      lot.

12.   A sign permit shall be approved prior to installation of any wall sign. Window signs do
      not require a sign permit. However, not more than 25 percent of the window area shall be
      covered. The final design and size of any outdoor wall sign shall be to the satisfaction and
      be approved by the Planning Director.

13.   The property owner and applicant shall maintain in good repair all building exteriors,
      walls, lighting, drainage facilities, driveway and parking area. The premises shall be kept
      clean and free of weeds, and prior to occupancy any weeds located in the landscape area
      and the area around the trash enclosure shall be removed. Any graffiti painted on the
      property shall be painted out or removed within 48 hours of occurrence.

14.   Outdoor storage of recyclables and other items shall not be allowed. All trash and
      recyclables shall be stored in proper receptacles.

15.   The existing trash enclosure shall be repaired to the satisfaction of the Planning Director.

16.   The business hours shall be 9:00 am to 9:00 pm daily. If the applicant wishes to extend
      business hours, the Planning Director shall review and act on any changes.

17.   The business is limited to only 20 percent walk-in customers who will receive a tattoo
      during the same visit.


                                                                                                     2

                                                 31
                                                                                    Attachment V


18.   Racist and gang related tattoos are prohibited to be applied to anyone.

19.   Lockable storage cupboard or locker shall be provided in each booth for customers to
      secure their personal belongings while using the services of the business.

20.   If interior tenant improvements are to be made, plans shall be submitted to the City of
      Hayward Building Division for building permit review and approvals prior to operation
      of business.

21.   Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed within the tenant space. Minimum size and
      type of fire extinguisher shall be 5 lb., dry-chemical, with a rating of 2A:10BC. Fire
      extinguishers shall be installed in accessible locations as approved by the Fire
      Department.

22.   Violation of these conditions is cause for revocation of permit, after a public hearing
      before the duly authorized review body.




                                                                                                 3

                                                32
33
                                                                                      Attachment VII



                                                        Hayward Police Department
                                                                   Criminal Investigations Bureau
                                                                            Vice/Intelligence Unit




                        BUSINESS/EVENT APPLICATION REVIEW

Business/Event Name:          Tattoo Facility- Request for Conditional Use Permit

Business Address:              214 Harder Road, Unit D

Applicant(s) Name(s):          Anthony (Tony) Ancheta

City Planner:                 Arlynne J. Camire, AICP

Project Number:                Pl-2013-0133 CUP

Project/Event Summary: The Hayward Police Department's VICE/Intelligence Unit has learned
of a pending application for a tattoo studio located at 214 Harder Road, Suite D.

Applicant Background: Mr. Anthony (Tony) Ancheta is the listed applicant for this business. He
currently is an "Ink Master" tattoo artist at lnkies Tattoo Studio in Fremont, CA and has been
employed there for four (4) years. Mr. Ancheta is a reputable tattoo artist who has received
positive comments from clients on review sites (i.e. YELP) and other local business directory
services on the Internet.

Mr. Ancheta is licensed with the Alameda County Department of Environmental Health Services
and possesses a valid Alameda County Body Art Practitioner's Permit (PR0510456).

Safety Concerns: The Alameda County Department of Environmental Health highly regulates
tattoo establishments. They are responsible for issuing permits and conducting inspections to
ensure that tattoo establishments and practitioner(s) are operating in compliance with the law.
Therefore, this would not put a tremendous strain on police resources to effectively regulate
this type of establishment.

The Hayward Police Department recommends this premise to have security cameras installed along
the front and east side of the building to monitor the entrance and adjacent parking lot area.

Signs prohibiting "loitering" is recommended to be posted along the front and east side of the
building to deter people from milling around the property and adjacent parking lot area.




                                                                                                     1
                                                   34
                                                                                   Attachment VII



Licensing/Documentation Requirements: The following licensing requirements shall be
maintained by the applicant/owner:

   1.) The applicant shall maintain a valid City of Hayward Business License.
   2.) The applicant shall maintain a valid establishment and individual practitioner(s) permits
        with the Alameda County Department of Environmental Health. Post the business
        license and California Department of Health Certificate in clear unobstructed view to the
        public.

Recommendations: After review of this application, the Hayward Police Department
recommends that this business be approved to operate within the City of Hayward. The
Hayward Police Department request that the following conditions be placed on the conditional
use permit issued to the applicant for the tattoo studio:

    ·    Post a sign at each entrance that states, "No Persons under Age of 18 Years Permitted."

    ·    Post California Penal Code 653 which reads "Every person who tattoos or offers to
         tattoo a person under the age of 18 years is guilty of a misdemeanor. As used in this
         section, to "tattoo" means to insert pigment under the surface of the skin of a human
         being, by pricking with a needle or otherwise, so as to produce an indelible mark or
         figure visible through the skin. This section is not intended to apply to any act of a
         licensed practitioner of the healing arts performed in the course of his practice in
         unobstructed view to customers."

    "    Post the appropriate health warning within the customer areas of the business.




SUBMITTED BY: Detective Angela Irizarry, Vice/Intelligence Unit

DATED: May 8, 2013




                                                                                                    2
                                                  35
                                                                                                  Attachment VII

Arlynne Camire

From:                              Jason Martinez
Sent:                              Monday, July 01, 2013 6:12 PM
To:                                Arlynne Camire
Cc:                                Angela Irizarry; Mark Koller; Bob Palermini
Subject:                           Re: Tattoo Studios


I am definitely okay with putting in the the fact that we do not have problems with the existing locations.  If it is 
common for staff reports to have someone's opinion based upon experience, I am also okay with and stand by my 
opinion related to the fact that they do not necessarily attract gang members. 
 
Regards, 
 
Jason   
 
Sent from my iPad 
 
On Jul 1, 2013, at 2:44 PM, "Arlynne Camire" <Arlynne.Camire@haywardca.gov> wrote: 

        From the email that was sent I included the following in the staff report. I want to confirm that Lt. 
        Martinez is ok with this being included in the staff report that will be sent to the Planning Commission 
        this Friday. I know that he is out of the office until Tuesday, July 9. 
        Thank you. 
        Arlynne 
          
        According to Lt. Jason Martinez, the Hayward Police Department does not receive many calls for 
        service to the currently operating tattoo studios and there is no evidence that tattoo studios attract 
        gang members.  Lt. Martinez is of the opinion that there is public misconception that there is a nexus 
        between gang members and tattoo studios.  "Many gang members get their tattoos in prison, during 
        "tattoo parties" at an associate gang member's house who may also be an unlicensed tattoo "artist", 
        etc."  He continues, "Tattoos are so accepted and mainstream these days that the masses have them 
        and it is a lucrative business for those artists who are talented."  
          
          
        From: Jason Martinez
        Sent: Friday, June 14, 2013 6:03 PM
        To: Arlynne Camire
        Cc: Angela Irizarry; Mark Koller; Bob Palermini
        Subject: Re: Tattoo Studios 
          
        Arlynne, 
          
        We do not receive many calls for service to the current operating tattoo studios and there is no 
        evidence that tattoo studios attract gang members. There is some public misconception that there is a 
        nexus between gang members and tattoo studios. Many gang members get their tattoos in prison, 
        during "tattoo parties" at an associate gang member's house who may also be an unlicensed tattoo 
        "artist", etc. Yes, gang members do and can go to studios to pay for a tattoo; however just like 
        purchasing any product they also can go to the 711 to buy beer, shop at any Hayward store, 
        etc.  Tattoos are so accepted and mainstream these days that the masses have them and it is a lucrative 
        business for those artists that are talented. The more important question is, how many tattoo studios do 
                                                             1
                                                                                                                  3
                                                              36
                                                                                        Attachment VII
we want to have in Hayward? I don't know what limits there are or even if a city can limit the number of 
them. Like massage establishments, they come with a mixed public image, whether real or not.  I hope 
this helps. If you have any other questions please ask! 
  
Regards, 
  
Lt. Jason Martinez 
 
Sent from my iPad 
Please excuse typos  
 
On Jun 14, 2013, at 5:02 PM, "Arlynne Camire" <Arlynne.Camire@haywardca.gov> wrote: 

        Do you receive many calls for service to the tattoo studios in Hayward? Does the Police 
        Department feel that the tattoo studios in Hayward attract gangs? 
        Thank you. 
          
          
        Arlynne J. Camire, AICP 
        Associate Planner 
        City of Hayward 
        777 B Street 
        Hayward, CA 945415007 
        Direct    510.583.4206 
        Fax         510.583.3649  
        www.haywardca.gov 
          
          




                                                    2
                                                                                                       4
                                                    37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
                                                                                        Attachment VIII

Arlynne Camire

From:                           Samurai <samurais300zx@yahoo.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, July 02, 2013 10:13 PM
To:                             Arlynne Camire
Cc:                             Paulo Coach Luis; reveretattoo@gmail.com
Subject:                        Revere Tattoo Location Proposal


Hello Arlynne,

My name is Don. Paulo informed me that he and a few other individuals were planning on opening their
own tattoo shop in a Hayward location and contacted me to provide my individual insight as to why their
venture should be supported by the city and the community.

First, my background with Paulo is that of he is my sole tattoo artist. All the ink on my body is done by
him and no one else. My relationship with him has spanned many years as I believe in quality. That is,
quality setting, quality art and work, quality personality and finally, quality for price. When it comes to ink,
if any of those components are missing, I will not have a tattoo placed on my body as it is permanent (for
me at least). The single most important part of a tattoo for me is, the relationship. I need trust, I need for
us to be "partners" in what is about to be inked onto my body. Through the years Paulo and I have grown
to know each other's kids, which are about the same age. A person not of the tattoo mindset and with the
stereotype that people with tattoos are cold, gangster, biker, street people would be shocked to learn that
Paulo and I talk about our kids, diapers, formula and how crawling is dumb when you can learn to walk
quickly!

Second, although Paulo is my artist, it goes without saying that I need an environment where I am not
going to feel like I need to be watching my back every minute. As mentioned above, the days of gangsters
and bikers only getting tattoos are a thing of the past as tattooing has become a major mainstream
acceptance - sports, retail (think Apple stores), advertising, reality shows, etc. Paulo has spent quite a bit
of time on my tattoos, totaling about 10 trips to see him. EVERY time I saw him, the environment was laid
back, relaxed, nobody acting violent or doing drugs or drinking. A wide variety of good music was playing,
people coming in for quotes treated professionally, tattoo areas set up professionally, appointments kept
and money handled precisely. There was never a time where it was crowded because of people waiting
around. There were rules for those people and they had to be followed. Most people getting tattooed, were
either listening to their own music, trying to sleep or watching a movie. Nothing like what non-tattooed
people might imagine. Virgin people might enter a tattoo shop and feel really intimidated, only to find out
just how silly that feeling was.

Even though I don't tattoo, I consider myself pretty knowledgeable about tattoos and the culture. Tattoos
are tattoos and they don't make the person. The person makes the tattoos. A prison con gangster with
tattoos are obvious they have gangster tattoos because their tattoos all focus on the gang life. Non
gangster people with tattoos are obvious they are not gangsters because they revolve around tribal,
memorials & tributes, tramp stamps and other designs. I am confident if you put two pictures side by side
of only tattoos without faces, it would be obvious who is the gangster. Will true gangsters and thugs get
tattoos done in places like this? Probably not because gangsters get them done by other gangsters as a
badge of pride and allegiance to their brotherhood or "set".

If the city of Hayward looks at the solid revenue this will provide to them, they will see that having
seasoned artists like Paulo, are almost recession proof. Obviously tattoos are not a life necessity, but with
the explosion in tattooing, combined with QUALITY tattoo artists, these artists don't depend upon walk in
traffic. Much like a person who understands the concept of a clientele in Neiman Marcus, their work has
been their advertising and therefore, quality tattoo artists are booked for months. When the original
artists reach a point of turning away too much walk in traffic or are booking too far in advance, expansion
brings in even more revenue.


                                                                                                          13
                                                        49
                                                                                                                                                                    Attachment III
                                                                               All Traffic Data
                                                                                          (916) 771-8700
                                                                                       orders@atdtraffic.com
City of Hayward                                                                                                                          File Name    : 13-7254-001PM Watkins-A Street
                                                                                                                                         Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                         Start Date   : 4/24/2013
                                                                                                                                         Page No      :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                                                               A Street                              Watkins Street                           A Street
                                     Southbound                              Westbound                                Northbound                             Eastbound
          Start Time       Left      Thru    Right       App. Total   Left   Thru      Right App. Total       Left    Thru      Right   App. Total   Left   Thru      Right   App. Total   Int. Total
               16:00         0          0       0                 0     6     135         0         141         19       0        41           60      0     121        34          155          356
               16:15         0          0       0                 0     6     160         0         166         28       0        35           63      0     106        25          131          360
               16:30         0          0       0                 0    11     147         0         158         25       0        31           56      0     126        18          144          358
               16:45         0          0       0                 0    13     129         0         142         22       0        48           70      0     115        22          137          349
                Total        0          0       0                 0    36     571         0         607         94       0       155          249      0     468        99          567        1423

              17:00           0          0          0             0     8     161         0          169       25        0        50           75      0    113         34          147        391
              17:15           0          0          0             0     8     146         0          154       26        0        37           63      0    146         29          175        392
              17:30           0          0          0             0    11     144         0          155       18        0        48           66      0    133         36          169        390
              17:45           0          0          0             0    10     124         0          134       29        0        51           80      0    136         37          173        387
               Total          0          0          0             0    37     575         0          612       98        0       186          284      0    528        136          664       1560

        Grand Total           0          0          0             0     73   1146         0         1219      192        0       341          533      0     996       235         1231       2983
         Apprch %             0          0          0                    6      94        0                     36       0        64                   0    80.9      19.1
            Total %           0          0          0             0    2.4    38.4        0         40.9       6.4       0      11.4         17.9      0    33.4        7.9        41.3




                                                                               A Street                              Watkins Street                           A Street
                                      Southbound                             Westbound                                Northbound                             Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right   App. Total   Left   Thru      Right   App. Total     Left    Thru      Right   App. Total   Left   Thru      Right   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
              17:00            0          0          0            0      8    161         0          169       25        0        50           75       0    113        34          147        391
              17:15            0          0          0            0      8    146         0          154       26        0        37           63       0    146        29          175        392
              17:30            0          0          0            0     11    144         0          155       18        0        48           66       0    133        36          169        390
              17:45            0          0          0            0     10    124         0          134       29        0        51           80       0    136        37          173        387
      Total Volume             0          0          0            0     37    575         0          612       98        0       186          284       0    528       136          664       1560
      % App. Total             0          0          0                   6     94         0                  34.5        0      65.5                    0   79.5      20.5
                PHF        .000       .000        .000        .000    .841   .893      .000         .905     .845     .000      .912         .888    .000   .904      .919         .949        .995




                                                                                                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                      96
                                                                                                                                                                    Attachment III
                                                                               All Traffic Data
                                                                                          (916) 771-8700
                                                                                       orders@atdtraffic.com
City of Hayward                                                                                                                          File Name    : 13-7254-001AM Watkins-A Street
                                                                                                                                         Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                         Start Date   : 4/25/2013
                                                                                                                                         Page No      :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                                                               A Street                              Watkins Street                           A Street
                                     Southbound                              Westbound                                Northbound                             Eastbound
          Start Time       Left      Thru    Right       App. Total   Left   Thru      Right App. Total       Left    Thru      Right   App. Total   Left   Thru      Right   App. Total   Int. Total
               07:00         0          0       0                 0     5     143         0         148          7       0        12           19      0      58        17           75          242
               07:15         0          0       0                 0     7     167         0         174         10       0        17           27      0      53        12           65          266
               07:30         0          0       0                 0    23     198         0         221          6       0        15           21      0      64        26           90          332
               07:45         0          0       0                 0    27     195         0         222         12       0        23           35      0      78        20           98          355
                Total        0          0       0                 0    62     703         0         765         35       0        67          102      0     253        75          328        1195

              08:00           0          0          0             0    28     175         0          203       18        0        19           37      0     65         25           90        330
              08:15           0          0          0             0    18     196         0          214       17        0        24           41      0     59         23           82        337
              08:30           0          0          0             0    13     183         0          196       16        0        25           41      0     79         21          100        337
              08:45           0          0          0             0    16     143         0          159       30        0        22           52      0     73         22           95        306
               Total          0          0          0             0    75     697         0          772       81        0        90          171      0    276         91          367       1310

        Grand Total           0          0          0             0   137    1400         0         1537      116        0       157          273      0     529       166          695       2505
         Apprch %             0          0          0                  8.9    91.1        0                  42.5        0      57.5                   0    76.1      23.9
            Total %           0          0          0             0    5.5    55.9        0         61.4       4.6       0        6.3        10.9      0    21.1        6.6        27.7




                                                                               A Street                              Watkins Street                           A Street
                                      Southbound                             Westbound                                Northbound                             Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right   App. Total   Left   Thru      Right   App. Total     Left    Thru      Right   App. Total   Left   Thru      Right   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 08:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45
              07:45            0          0          0            0     27    195         0          222       12        0        23           35       0     78        20           98        355
              08:00            0          0          0            0     28    175         0          203       18        0        19           37       0     65        25           90        330
              08:15            0          0          0            0     18    196         0          214       17        0        24           41       0     59        23           82        337
              08:30            0          0          0            0     13    183         0          196       16        0        25           41       0     79        21          100        337
      Total Volume             0          0          0            0     86    749         0          835       63        0        91          154       0    281        89          370       1359
      % App. Total             0          0          0                10.3   89.7         0                  40.9        0      59.1                    0   75.9      24.1
                PHF        .000       .000        .000        .000    .768   .955      .000         .940     .875     .000      .910         .939    .000   .889      .890         .925        .957




                                                                                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                      98
