             TECHNICAL APPENDIX



· Air Quality - Urbemis Report, BAAQMD Screening Criteria

· Tree Analysis - Michael L. Bench, Consulting Arborist

· Historical and Architectural Evaluation - Urban Programmers

· Environmental Noise Study ­ Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc.

· Traffic Evaluation ­ Fehr & Peers
 State of California The Resources Agency                                Primary #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                      HRI #
 PRIMARY RECORD                                                          Trinomial
                                                                         NRHP Status Code NA
                                          Other Listings
                                          Review Code              Reviewer               Date


Page       1     of     27             *Resource Name or #: (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave, San Jose
P1.       Other Identifier:
*P2.      Location: Not for Publication X Unrestricted
    *a.   County Santa Clara                                  and (P2c, P2e, and P2b or P2d. Attach a Location Map as necessary.)
    *b.   USGS 7.5' Quad      San Jose West Date 1980                                       T     ;R       ;   3 of 3 of Sec      ; B.M.
    c.    Address 480-500 Saratoga Ave                                City San Jose Zip                    95129
    d.    UTM: (Give more than one for large and/or linear resources) Zone 10,590958 mE/ 4130693 mN
    e.    Other Locational Data: (e.g., parcel #, directions to resource, elevation, etc., as appropriate)
                              APN 303-25-056
*P3a.     Description: (Describe resource and its major elements. Include design, materials, condition, alterations, size, setting, and boundaries)
The subject property is a portion of the Harker Academy's 15.9 acre site and is a remnant of the past semi-
agricultural residential properties that were spaced apart along Saratoga Avenue from the 1920's-1950's. The
integrity of the property is severely diminished by the dominating developments adjacent to the former single-
family residence. To the west is the main campus of Harker Elementary and High School, to the east a three story
multi-family residential building, and to the north, Saratoga Avenue has been widened to remove the original
landscaping of the front yard.

The site consists of two single-story, wood -framed buildings which together comprise a mid-sized single-family
residence fronting Saratoga Avenue and a rear out building containing both a garage and attached secondary
residential/storage space. The front structure is constructed on an irregular floor plan, sheathed in stucco and
distinguished by a flat roof with a projecting flat roofed front porch designed in a regional interpretation of Prairie
                                                                              ( Continued on page 3)
                                                                                                 *P3b.      Resource Attributes:       (List attributes
                                                                                                          HP 2 Single family detached house/
                                                                                                 and codes)
                                                                                                 HP 15 Educational Bldg.
                                                                                                 P4. Resources       Present:       X        Building
                                                                                                 Structure Object       Site District        Element
                                                                                                 of District Other (Isolates, etc.)

                                                                                                 P5b. Description of Photo: (view, date,
                                                                                                 accession #)   View S
                                                                                                 Front Façade, 10/25/2010
                                                                                                 *P6. Date Constructed/Age and Source:                x
                                                                                                  Historic  Prehistoric    Both
                                                                                                 Constructed: 1922 Assessor Records
                                                                                                 *P7. Owner and Address:
                                                                                                  Harker School Foundation
                                                                                                 500 Saratoga Ave.,San Jose 95050
                                                                                                 *P8. Recorded by: (Name, affiliation, and
                                                                                                 address)
                                                                                                  Bonnie Bamburg
                                                                                                  Urban Programmers
                                                                                                  10710 Ridgeview Avenue
                                                                                                  San Jose CA 95127
                                                                                                 *P9. Date Recorded:10/25/2010
*P10. Survey Type: (Describe) Intensive
*P11. Report Citation: (Cite survey report and other sources, or enter "none.") None
*Attachments:      NONE      Location Map       Continuation Sheet       X Building, Structure, and Object Record
 Archaeological Record        District Record    Linear Feature Record        Milling Station Record        Rock Art Record
 Artifact Record    X Photograph Record           Other (List):



DPR 523A (1/95)                                                                                                      *Required information
State of California The Resources Agency                                  Primary #
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                        HRI#
BUILDING, STRUCTURE, AND OBJECT RECORD

                                                                   *NRHP Status Code 6Z
Page     2      of 27                 *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave. San Jose
B1.     Historic Name:     Wiesendanger Home
B2.     Common Name: Harker School Building
B3.     Original Use: residence B4. Present Use: vacant
*B5.    Architectural Style: Vernacular Prairie Style
*B6.    Construction History: (Construction date, alterations, and date of alterations)

        Constructed c.1922 remodeling c. 1977
B7.     Moved? X No Yes              Unknown Date:                          Original Location:
*B8.    Related Features:
                                none

B9a.      Architect:       Unknown      b. Builder: Unknown
*B10.     Significance: Theme      architecture Area    San Jose
          Period of Significance          Property Type house Applicable Criteria NA (Discuss importance in terms of historical or
          architectural context as defined by theme, period, and geographic scope. Also address integrity.)


The property is not significant to the history or architectural heritage of San Jose because it is not
associated with individuals or events of significance. Further the architecture is not an important example
of the Prairie Style design and it has been altered with contemporary materials. The property and building
are associated with the James Wiesendanger family who had the buildings constructed 1922, and
commercial uses, but none of the associations were individually significant in the history of San Jose. The
property totaled 23.68 points on the San Jose Historic Evaluation Tally- rating in the category of non-
significant.

Historical Development
Prehistoric Period
The first known inhabitants of the Santa Clara Valley were the Tamien tribe, a group of four distinct
triblets that occupied different parts of the valley and were part of the Coastal Ohlone language group.
Their settlements were established in areas where game, fish, acorns and vegetation (food) and fresh
water were available, often along the Guadalupe River and Coyote Creek (Laffey 1992:1).
The Ohlone were decimated in the late 1700's as Spain,
attempting to thwart the expansion of Russia and                      (Sketch Map with north arrow required.)

                                                                                                              See sheet # 18
B11.      Additional Resource Attributes: (List attributes and codes)
                                                  HP 15
Educational Building, HP2 single family house
*B12. References: City & County public documents,
B13. Remarks:
*B14. Evaluator: Bonnie Bamburg
*Date of Evaluation: 11/15/2010


                 (This space reserved for official comments.)




       DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                                   *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                               #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                   x Continuation     Update



Page 3     of 28                         *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                    *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update


P3.Description cont

Style architecture. The rear building is constructed on a simple rectangular floor plan also with a similar-designed
flat roof. The lot is pie shaped with the largest area along the roadway and narrowing in an easterly direction to the
rear. The lot is wedged between the campus of Harker Academy to the south and southeast and a new high-density
apartment/condominium development to the north and northeast.

The house itself is constructed on an irregular-shaped rectangular floor plan in a very truncated "L" design with the
longest side running parallel to Saratoga Avenue and the shorter rear side projecting eastward into the lot. The
residence's most distinctive architectural feature is the front porch with its 4 square-posts supporting a flat roof
that mimics the general roof design that characterize both buildings which is of a flat roof with a second flat portion
projecting from the eave line. This porch extends to the north forming a port cochere over a driveway that
continues to the area between the front residence and the back garage building. The dominance of this front porch
extending over the drive further emphasizes the horizontal massing of the site which is very characteristic of Prairie
Style architecture.

This dominant front porch is the most important design element which characterizes the house's main façade facing
west. The porch/port cochere projects significantly from the house and comprises about 60% of the frontage along
Saratoga Avenue. It is raised 3 concrete steps above the ground. The wooden supports are somewhat distinctive in
their design which consists of a thick flat squared wooden base with flat, stacked boards forming a capital that is
topped by a short and much smaller mini-column above. These forms are very characteristic of many of the local
vernacular Prairie houses found throughout the Santa Clara Valley. The porch is further ornamented by a wide,
cross-hatched wooden screen placed along the porch's front wall. Fenestration consists of single and tripartite
rectangular shaped horizontally-oriented windows with wooden surrounds. Thin tongue and groove wooden slats
sheathe the ceiling of the porch roof. The most interesting aspect of the roof occurs where the porch roof
intersects with the main house roof. The flat roof of the house has a similar flat roof piece that juts out
perpendicularly and then a second flat roof which forms the cover of the porch parallels the main roof. Each one of
these roof forms have the same basic design which is flat with a centered boxed flat section above. The final detail
of the front façade is the front door which is a simple, tall single-paneled door with a decorative metallic "sunburst"
screen door covering. In addition, small horizontal-shaped metal vents further appear along the raised box
section of the roof on all facades.

The south-facing façade is defined by twin rectangular double-hung windows on the western side of the main
residence and then a rear enclosed glass porch with 3 double-hung , tall rectangular-shaped windows that are set
back in a slight dog-leg. The same flat roof design with its projecting flat eave characterizes all elevations. Two
concrete steps lead down from the porch to the ground at this the first of two rear entries.


The rear or east-facing elevation is characterized by a single, small double-hung rectangular-shaped window then
paired double hung windows and a second rear door with 4 concrete steps leading down to the ground. Here too
an ornamental screen door defines this main rear entry. A final single rectangular window is located north of this
door.

The north-facing elevation exhibits the aforementioned large port cochere that projects out from the residence.
Behind this are more of the characteristic rectangular window forms that define the other facades.


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                     *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                               #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                   x Continuation     Update



Page 4     of 28                         *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                    *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update



The rear, detached outbuilding is set behind the residence and consists of a single-story stucco- sheathed structure
that is constructed on a simple rectangular floor plan with the same flat roof with flat form projecting from the eave
line. The middle part of the building contains a single door with two small widows on either side while the south
side exhibits the remnant garage space. A second space of old wooden garage doors that have been sealed as part
of the converted residential area defines the north side. A badly damaged brick chimney punctuates the north
facing elevation of the outbuilding with another door entry immediately to the west. The flat roof is topped by
three metal chimney vents with conical caps. A shed roof juts from the rear of the structure.

The parcel itself is defined by a new wooden fence separating the site from the "La Terraza" 3 story
apartment/condominium complex next door. A metal fence runs along Saratoga Ave while a cyclone fence
separates the site from the rest of the Harker Academy, a private school, to the south. Two big pepper trees shade
the lot along with one smaller tree (that appears to be dead) at the rear.

The buildings are in very deteriorating (poor) condition with the front residence being the better maintained. The
building was altered for commercial use, prior to being acquired by the school in 2000, and used as a pre-school.
Currently it appears to be used by the school as a security station.

The main building is a very modest example of vernacular adaptation of Prairie Style architecture which was
prominent in the Bay Area from approximately 1910 to 1935. This house was once a farmhouse when this section
of the Santa Clara Valley was primarily orchards. The attribute that is of most interest is the vernacular Prairie Style
architecture represented by the prominent porch structure; however it is not carried out as a total design style
throughout the building. Within San Jose the Prairie Style is found in many locations with fine examples found in
the Rose Garden and Willow Glen neighborhoods. Of the seven aspects of integrity ascribed by the National
Register, the property has lost the integrity of feeling and association to the agricultural setting. The other aspects
of design, workmanship, and materials are diminished, location is the only aspect not diminished.


B 10: Significance Continued:

England in California, colonized the area enforcing subjugation and introducing European disease as Spain
continued exploring and settling the coast for commercial expansion.

The Spanish Period (1777-1822)
Exploration of Alta California brought the Spanish to the San Francisco Bay Area. The initial discovery of
the Santa Clara Valley was by Sergeant Jose Ortega of the Portola Expedition in 1769, who chronicled the
abundance of timber, rich soil and a native population that could become a work force. It took less than
eight years for Mission Santa Clara to be established and a few months longer for the first civil settlement
in California, El Pueblo de San Jose de Guadalupe, to be established along the east bank of the Guadalupe
River. The river became the boundary between the Roman Catholic Mission and the civil settlement.
Although both were expected to provide food and goods to the Presidios of Monterey and San Francisco,
their methods were very different. The Mission required the native population as a work force, while the
Pueblo was settled by volunteers who were provided limited provisions and operated under a form of
civil/military regulations.


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                     *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                            #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                x Continuation     Update



Page 5     of 28                       *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                  *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

In November 1777, Lt. Jose Joaquin Moraga, representing the King of Spain, and 14 families, a total of 66
people, left the Presidio San Francisco to create the first civil settlement in California in the fertile valley of
the Guadalupe River. Moraga had the map drawn providing each family with a lot for a house and
allocating "suertes" farming plots which could be used but not sold, and surrounding the Pueblo, common
lands for grazing.
The settlement was originally located on the Guadalupe River in north San Jose (Taylor Street), but the
annual flooding caused the settlers to petition for relocation to the south where they would be on higher
ground. The request was granted, allowing the town to relocate about 1791. The new location was at the
cross roads from Monterey and Mission Santa Clara with the port of Alviso about one mile north. The
town was laid out with the center a plaza and market place where the Road from Monterey entered
(Market Street). Creating the town required a system of ditches (acequia) be constructed that would
circulate fresh water throughout the town and farm lands. Eventually these were fed throughout the
years by constructing a dam on the river. Residential lots and settlement patterns followed the alignment
of the acequia.
The route of travel between San Francisco (Yerba Buena) and Monterey essentially follows the El Camino
Real (Monterey Road through the south of the county) to Santa Clara Street; The Alameda to Santa Clara.
Along this section, willow trees were planted by the Padres to shade travelers. Other modern roads also
follow the early trails; Trimble Road connected the Mission Santa Clara with its corn fields (milpas) and to
Mission San Jose (established in 1789); Highway 880 (#17) connected the Missions of Santa Clara and
Santa Cruz, an old trail that was improved with the labor of Mission Indians.
During the Spanish period, farming produced beans, corn, wheat, hemp, flax, seasonal vegetables and
fruit. The basic industry of the area revolved around the crops, milling and hemp/flax thread, candles and
soap- the necessities. A poor quality wine and brandy were made from small vineyards and orchard fruit.
As the cattle herds grew, hides (leather) and tallow (fat and rendering) became important in the local
economy. Surplus food and goods made by the Pueblo were sent to the Presidios or traded with the
sailing ships through the ports of Alviso, Monterey, Yerba Buena, and Santa Cruz.
Mexican Period (1822-1846)
Change was brought about by the 1810, civil war in Mexico which relaxed the regulations and destroyed
the economy within the Pueblo. With reduced oversight from the Spanish military and reduced Spanish
trade, the opportunity for trade with foreign ships through previously guarded ports provided different
provisions - tea and coffee as well as manufactured goods. Exposure to different trade and governance
systems came from the sailors who decided to jump ship and stay in California.
In 1822 Mexican governmental control replaced Spain's. The two most important and long term changes
were the secularizing of Mission lands and, in 1824, the granting of large land holdings (ranchos) to any
person who settled an unoccupied tract of land. Within Santa Clara Valley there were 38 land grants
issued between 1833 and 1845, 15 of which were within the lands formerly held by the Pueblo (Laffey
1992:2). The ranchos were operated much as small towns, self sufficient in growing food and providing
labor for the rancho's fields and industries, which were increasingly related to cattle (hides and tallow).
While religion was part of the Rancho life, education was lacking.
Another change was allowing foreigners to settle in California. The first such settler was Antonio Sunol,
born in Spain, who arrived on a French ship. An educated man, he opened the first general store and
saloon in the Pueblo. He also planted a vineyard and it appears he was the first European to make wine in


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                  *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 6     of 28                      *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

Santa Clara Valley selling it as early as 1823 (Arbuckle 1984:175). Soon his education qualified him for
postmaster, banker and attorney, and in 1841, he became the Alcade (Mayor). Others followed and in
1841, the first Americans arrived by overland routes. In 1835, approximately 700 residents lived in the
Pueblo; 40 were foreign, mostly English or Americans. By 1845, the population had grown to 900; almost
200 were Americans. The Americans were interested in business and transforming the Pueblo with
American style commerce. By 1846, when the Americans occupied the State, their numbers were
sufficient to take control.
It was during this period in 1841, that the 13,330 acre Quito Rancho was granted to Juan Noriega and his
father-in-law, Juan Zenon Fernandez. The Rancho included what is today, Campbell, Saratoga, west San
San Jose and Cupertino. It appears the land was used for grazing horses and cattle.
The Early American Period (1846-1869)
This turbulent period was marked by change; the influx of American settlers to the Mexican community;
the dramatic change from the established governing systems of Spain, then Mexico to the
English/American legal system; and an agrarian economy to the beginning of industry in the local
economy. Land ownership was particularly difficult since the Mexican Government had granted large
holdings with little documentation of boundaries; the two cultures often disagreed on how to adjudicate
differences.
To settle at least some of the issues relating to land ownership, a survey was conducted in 1847 of the
Pueblo from Market Street to Eighth Street and Julian south to Reed Street. Those who claimed ownership
were given legal title; unclaimed land sold for $50 a city block (Laffey 1992:5). Other surveys followed,
some more accurate than others. In 1850, Surveyor Thomas White extended the city limits to Coyote
Creek in the east and beyond the Guadalupe River on the west. Surveys were only part of the problem.
Americans believed the open lands gained by the Treaty of Hidalgo were public and available. To
determine legal title under the American system required the US government to establish the California
Lands Commission in 1851; but that process proved lengthy and expensive, with the consequence that
land was often forfeited. Within the Pueblo, the area between Market Plaza and the Guadalupe was
contested for many years delaying development in this area while ownership was determined.
The gold rush of 1848-49 brought a sudden influx of primarily Americans to California. People needed
food and services that were not immediately available. The businessmen of San Jose quickly developed
hotels, saloons, theaters, and stores ready to sell whatever the miners needed. So prominent was the City
that it was selected the first State Capitol in 1850 and although it lasted only two years, this provided
incentive for even more urban development.
Outside the city proper, farms, orchards and vineyards started to fill the Valley. However, the stock of
vines and trees did not significantly improve until 1851-53 when Antoine Delmas and then Louis Pellier
imported European vines and scions that could be grafted to the hardy mission grape stock. They were
followed by Etienne Thee and Charles Le Franc, who by 1857, had formed the Almaden Vineyards.
The College of Notre Dame was founded in 1851 growing from a small wood building to occupy a large
campus of classic brick buildings on W. Santa Clara St. between San Pedro and Santa Teresa. The school
educated young girls, elementary school through college. A few years later Minns Evening Normal School
was established in San Francisco in 1857, after which it moved to San Jose, becoming San Jose Normal
School now San Jose State University.
Infrastructure continued to develop to support the population growth. Natural gas was piped to buildings


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 7     of 28                      *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

and street lights in San Jose and Santa Clara in 1861. Five years later, San Jose Water Company
incorporated to provide piped water to residents followed closely by the City installing the first sewers.
Transportation, using horse drawn carriages, was established between Santa Clara, San Jose and Saratoga-
Los Gatos, to be replaced by Samuel Bishop's Street Car line in 1868. This line extended from Santa Clara
eventually ending at the Alum Rock Reserve (park) in the east hills.
The educated population attracted printers and newspapers to the area. Politically motivated, the State
Journal in December 1850, and the Daily Argus in 1851, were short lived; however, San Jose would never
again be without locally printed newspapers (Arbuckle 1984:397).
A subtle change was occurring in agriculture with a switch from grazing lands to planted grain fields,
primarily wheat, filling the valley floor. The economy was changing from cattle-based to wheat and
seasonal fresh fruit. Fruit orchards planted by the Mission supplied apples and pears to the miners
showing the profit potential that could be made by raising fruit. By the end of 1850, San Jose was home to
several professional orchardists and nurserymen including Louis Pellier, who opened City Nursery on the
northeast corner of San Pedro and Chaboya Alley in 1850. Just 10 years later, 106,000 fruit trees thrived
in the county and 156,000 grape vines; orchards were planted in all directions extending from the City
(Arbuckle 1984:155).
This early period ends with the coming of the railroad. The first line was between San Francisco and San
Jose opening in 1864, and in 1869, the Central Pacific line started from San Jose to Niles. The
transcontinental railroad that connected Santa Clara Valley to the eastern states allowed access for the
local agriculture and goods to be sold into the world's markets.
Horticultural Expansion 1870-1918
Grape growing found an instant market in the late 1870s, and into the 1880s because wine was in high
demand and fruit that could not be dried, remained a seasonal commodity. "By the end of the 1880's
Santa Clara County had 15,000 acres of vine and 478 viticulturists. producing 2,500,000 gallons of wine a
year" (Arbuckle 1984:176). Orchards of many varieties of fruit spread in all directions spawning small
towns with services and conveniences for the rural families. Berryessa in the east, The Willows in the
west, Saratoga and Los Gatos, were all connected by fruit orchards. The most popular fruit was the small
French prune imported by Louis and Pierre Pellier, known as the "la Petite Prune d'Agen" a fruit that
would lead the agricultural industry in Santa Clara Valley. A fruit in high demand all over the world the
prune grew to be a $43,000,000 a-year- industry in California (Arbuckle, 1984:163). Throughout the
Horticultural Era and into 1970, when the industry was ending, the prune was grown in ratios of
approximately three to one of the next species, apricots (Arbuckle,1984:163). Drying fruit was a relatively
natural and low cost process, but it was subject to weather conditions and not suitable for all types of
fruit. The abundance of the orchards demanded a new process to preserve the fruit for sale.
Food processing started in France in the 1850's. However, locally it was Dr. James Dawson who invented
the process in his home laboratory in 1871. Companies formed to manufacture all types of equipment to
support the joint industries; orchard sprayers, food processing machinery, and tractors all were made in
San Jose. With superb growing conditions and land for vast orchards, the canning industry grew quickly in
San Jose, as did support industries of box, basket, and can factories. Mergers of the smaller or specialized
companies led to some of the largest corporations, such as FMC, that started as Bean Pump and Spray
Company merging with Anderson ­Barngrover, Hull and Cunningham. During the same period, vineyards
were also bountiful and Paul Masson, Pierre Mirassou and William Wehner were all producing wines from


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 8     of 28                      *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

grapes grown on the hillsides around the Valley. Food processors, canners and dryers separated to form
their own support organizations.

As the economy grew so did urban development, expanding from First Street to Second and, two years
after the Chinatown fire of 1887, a new City Hall was constructed in the Plaza, and in 1893, a new Post
Office on Market Street. During the 1880's three and four-story bank buildings were constructed on all
four corners of Santa Clara and First streets. During this time, business moved south from Santa Clara
Street, spurred on by T.S. Montgomery who developed several large city blocks.
As the City expanded so did the infrastructure. By 1881, electricity, was provided by several private
companies operating from different locations around the City. In the same year J.J. Owen, owner of the
San Jose Mercury was instrumental in having a light tower constructed at the corner of Market and Santa
Clara streets. Electric arc lamps that had replaced the gas lamps were replaced in 1912, with incandescent
lights on the downtown streets.

Automobiles were first seen in the Valley in the 1890's, with the State's first auto manufacturing, garage
and gas station established in San Jose by the turn of the century. The first "garage" was opened by
Clarence Letcher in 1900 followed by his first gas station in 1902. The first motor bus line in the state
began service from San Jose to Mt. Hamilton in 1910. It was then possible to take the bus to the San Jose
Country Club established in 1899, on Alum Rock Avenue.

The first regularly scheduled radio station was started in San Jose in 1909, when Dr. Charles Harold
broadcast from his offices at the corner of First and San Fernando streets. In addition to the first
commercial broadcast, Harold is credited with opening a college to train radio engineers where he
qualified over 1200 students by 1922. He is also credited with more than 50 inventions during his career.
Development continued throughout the City. Most of the vacant lots were filled with houses or small
commercial buildings during the 1880's. The Hensley property was divided in 1886, as was College Park off
The Alameda followed by the subdivision of General Naglee's estate in 1902 and Hanchett Park in 1907.
During this period, the City annexed the Gardiner District and the City of East San Jose in 1911, and a year
later an unusual annexation was the 100 foot wide strip of land along N. First Street leading to Alviso.
Streets that began in the center of the city, extended to connect the rural corners of the Valley. Although
they changed names outside the core, the convenience of a connected valley was perfect for the
automobile and truck traffic that took hold during this era.

Inter-War Period 1918-1945
Three projects that started in the 1920's and completed by 1939, were particularly important in the
development of San Jose. The first was the connection of Bayshore Highway from N. First Street to San
Francisco; the second was the formation of the Santa Clara Valley Water Conservation District to alleviate
the falling level of ground water; and the third was the selection and development of Moffett Field as a
military base, for which San Jose campaigned heavily.

After several years of attempting to block the effects of the Volstead Act in Santa Clara Valley, the
winemakers were faced on February 20, 1920 with following the provision of the Eighteenth Amendment


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 9     of 28                      *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

to the U.S. Constitution "prohibiting the sale and manufacture of intoxicating liquors until the conclusion
of the present war and thereafter until the termination of demobilization, the date of which shall be
determined and proclaimed by the President of the United States. The words "beer, wine, or other
intoxicating malt or vinous liquors" in the War Prohibition Act shall be hereafter construed to mean any
such beverages which contain one-half of 1 per centum or more of alcohol by volume" (Volstead Act; Title
one, 1919). Winemaking was an important part of the local economy in the Santa Clara Valley where
8,000 acres were cultivated with wine grapes. Northern California more known as the wine area was more
heavily invested (Sullivan1982:128). Not until 1933 were the effects of the Volstead Act - 1920-1933 - and
local laws repealed. Several local wineries had stocked wine and were quick to tool up their old equipment
and begin shipping wine made and stored during the dry years. Cribari, Almaden, Paul Masson and others
shipped less than 145,000 gallons. The first new winery operation after repeal was constructed in 1937,
by Peter Mirassou who held 100 acres in Evergreen. The winery with 130,000 gallon capacity shipped bulk
dry wine and champagne, that was considered of better quality than most (Sullivan 1982:144). Peter and
his sons Edmund and Norbert continued to improve the quality of local wine and promote the industry. At
the conclusion of WWII, California and the Santa Clara Valley were experiencing a wine shortage and more
acreage was planted to meet the need. Along with this came a campaign to teach the wine buying public
about the quality of Santa Clara Valley and other premium wines. The industry was moving away from
sweet wine, cheap white wine, and to the better wines produced locally.

At the same time the vintners were facing a loss of business, the orchards were expanding to supply the
growing need for fruit to satisfy the demand for processed, canned and dried fruit. Associations of
growers, canners and dryers finally gained stability developing into huge organizations that would
distribute Santa Clara Valley's produce throughout the world. World War I was ending when the California
Fruit Packers Association (Calpak) was formed, uniting several successful independent companies under
one name. In San Jose construction began in 1918 to construct plants along the railroads, often taking
over buildings left empty by prohibition. F.W. Wool, Baron-Gray, Richmond-Chase, Calpak ­ Del Monte,
Tri-Valley Growers and Packers, Sunsweet, and Hunt Bros. constructed plants throughout the Valley, in
San Jose there were concentrations in the Taylor-Jackson area, The Alameda, along S. 3rd-9th Sts, and in
Willow Glen. The food processors were followed by American Can, Continental Can and other secondary
manufacturers of containers and machinery. In 1925, there were 6,959 farms, between 1927 and 1930
prune acreage increased to 65,077 acres; apricots to 17,891; pear to 7,308 cherry to 1,906 and plum to
1,560 acres (Arbuckle 1985:163). La petite prune d'Agen, propagated by Louis Pelllier was the fruit that
lead the county in percentage of the world consumption and was reported to have been a $43,000,000 a
year industry. The food processing industry became the economic engine that encouraged growth in
population, housing, social organizations, wealth, and all aspects of the City. However international
events leading to WWII had a dramatic effect in the Valley when the Third Reich, at Hitler's direction
ceased purchasing dried fruit from California. The resulting glut of fruit in 1933-34 forced several ranches
into bankruptcy and others to replant prunes with alternative species. The subject property was one of
those that were forced into bankruptcy and foreclosure by Bank of America.

Population continued to increase and the residential development to expand into the orchard areas or
infill such as the Vendome Hotel site on N. First Street. Annexation continued to extend the City


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 10      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

boundaries; Palm Haven in 1922, and the Stockton and White districts in 1924. Willow Glen incorporated
in 1927 and annexed to San Jose in 1936. Further outside the City, the east hills were subdivided for
homes and the first airport was constructed at 1919 Alum Rock Road. The first municipal airport was
established as the Garden City Airport in 1934 and moved to Tully Road in1939 by Cecil and Robert Reid
who renamed it Reid Hillview Airport (Laffey 1992:9).

Part of the population and job growth was from those who had served in the military and came to attend
college in the Valley using the G.I. Bill to help pay expenses. At Stanford University, Dr. Frederick Terman,
a gifted professor had an exceptional class and was already seeing some of his students venture into what
would become the next economic wave; electronics, and high technology. Students David Packard and Bill
Hewlett invented test equipment in 1939, and obtained government contracts to continue their work
during the war years. In 1945, they were well positioned to lead those who formed or worked for
companies that were the foundation of Silicon Valley - Varian Sylvania, Philco-Ford, GE and Lockheed.

Industrialization and Urbanization 1945-1991

During WWII social changes occurred. Women who became part of the war-effort work force were then
less content to stay at home. Able to work outside the home or to volunteer these women made it very
desirable to have two cars in each family. This was not lost on the home builders who included a two car
garage with most homes after 1945. With more automobiles available, commercial centers were no longer
tied to the bus or street car line; thus they spread out along all the major roads. At the same time,
changes in building safety codes required additional exiting and other modifications to second floor
spaces primarily in the downtown. Without the guarantee of higher rents, many owners did not correct
the deficiencies so the upper story spaces became vacant.

After WWII, the population of San Jose rose dramatically. City leaders launched campaigns to attract non-
agricultural industries and house building led construction in the Valley. The post-war community of
95,000 in 1950 became the urban hub of 500,000 by 1975, while the area of the City grew from 17 square
miles to 120 square miles as land annexed for housing tracts, commercial centers and industrial
complexes replaced orchards.

All roads seemed to lead out of the historic downtown. Valley Fair at Stevens Creek and Winchester
boulevards, offered a new shopping experience - a mall with free parking and a variety of stores, (I
Magnin, Joseph Magnin, Macys, and the Emporium, stores previously only in San Francisco). In 1957, the
new City Hall constructed with modern manufactured materials, signaling the progressive City, was
located at N. First and Mission Streets, far north of the downtown. Hotels in the downtown, once the
heart of the social set, became subsidized housing for older, often destitute people. Even the San Jose
Mercury and San Jose Evening News, San Jose's only daily newspapers moved from W. Santa Clara Street
to a new facility on Ridder Park Drive out of the downtown. Soon the downtown became isolated as
shops either went out of business or moved to outlying centers and there was little to attract people to
come into the City's core. During the 1950's and early 1960's federal funds were available for urban
renewal to demolish obsolete or blighted buildings and San Jose's leaders, believing that a cleared parcel


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 11      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

of land was more attractive to new development, received many awards for this work. Asphalt soon
covered the vacant lots where three and four story buildings had once stood, almost 30% of the
downtown was paved.

The train ran between San Jose and San Francisco exactly has it had since 1909, and the Southern Pacific
sponsored bus line dropped the SP and became the Greyhound Line, moving to a larger bus terminal on
Notre Dame Avenue. Light industrial development appeared just outside the core where the opportunity
for less expensive land allowed service, repair, warehouse and distribution of services related to the
remaining businesses.

Outside of the City, General Electric Company opened a new facility at Curtner and Monterey Road in
1948, IBM on Cottle Road in 1953, and Ac'cent on Monterey Road in 1946. Lockheed was also renting
space and looking for a place to construct a facility (eventually in Mt. View). Major reconstruction of the
schools in San Jose began in the late 1950's when, with the intent to protect children, the State made
bond funds available to local school districts if their schools were evaluated by structural engineers and
found to be seismically inadequate. Many schools were determined to be structurally unsafe and were
demolished, replaced with new buildings or new facilities which were deemed to be more economical to
maintain and located in areas where the population was growing. A few years later, hospitals found the
same state mandates and were either rebuilt or extensively remodeled.

By the end of the 1970's Park Center Plaza, a new library and the Center for the Performing Arts were
constructed on the west side of the downtown. In the center, next to St. James Park the Scottish Rite
Temple on N. 3rd became the San Jose Athletic Club and the old Post Office (formerly library) became the
San Jose Museum of Art. Other than reusing some historic buildings, there was little new development in
the core area.

Surrounding the growing city, agricultural use remained predominate, with most of the land outside the
City borders in Santa Clara County. Villages developed on transit corridors, generally about five miles
from the downtown providing the sense of a district or community - a town center, with a school and
often a post office. Replacing the orchards with residential tracts accelerated in the decades of the 1950's
and 1960's as large acreages were annexed to San Jose. The new housing was constructed in suburban
style tracts, all with a forward facing double or triple garage to showcase the family cars.
As the City embraced the new, ever expanding high technology, the price of industrial waste was
beginning to be understood. Still, the general tenure through the 1980's was one of optimism and
progress.

Historical Context within the Inter-War Period, relative to the subject property:

During the Inter-War Period 1918-1945 , fruit ranches, continued to be planted on land that had
previously been used for grazing . Throughout the Santa Clara Valley, orchards produced the fruit that
became the resource to an expanding fruit processing industry, an industry that would see the Santa Clara
Valley producing 25% of the world's prunes by the 1930's (Laffy, G.A.: 1992). Through the Inter-War


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                                   #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                       x Continuation     Update



Page 12      of 28                              *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                           *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

Period 1918-1945, agriculture remained the most important industry of the Valley with some ranches
continuing into the era that would show great disparity between agriculture and the rising value of
technology after WWII, when residential and industrial development expanded into the agricultural lands
leading to the Era of Industrialization and Urbanization 1945-1991. Thus the origins are within the context
of the "Inter-War Period 1918-1945", and extend into the Industrialization and "Urbanization Period
1945-1991", a time when many immigrant families in the Santa Clara Valley found that agriculture was the
key to their new life. Of the many families who followed this pattern, some encountered disaster during
the Great Depression and the loss of European prune markets at the beginning of WWII. It appears the
fruit trees on the subject property were apricots and cherries and not prunes, although all ranchers
suffered during the Depression.

480 Saratoga Avenue:

The buildings on the subject property were developed in the 1920'sduring the Inter-War Era 1919-1945, in
San Jose. During this period the City of San Jose was experiencing both population growth and the end of
the domination of the fruit processing industry. Agriculture turned toward green houses, cold storage and
ice manufactures to maintain fresh produce, leading into the development of frozen strawberries and
other produce. As the automobile gained acceptance road-side fruit stands were common in the Santa
Clara Valley. 1 The themes of architecture and agriculture were primary in the evaluation of the subject
property.

During the Spanish period the land was likely used for grazing, however there is no indication that
structures were constructed on this particular parcel. When control moved to Mexican rule in 1822, the
property was petitioned and became the 13,330 acre Rancho Quito, granted by Governor Juan Alverado
to Jose Noriega and his father-in-law, Jose Zenon Fernandez, in 1841. Noriega, who had been the Alcade
(Mayor) for San Jose in 1839, sold his interest to Jose Alviso in 1844. Fernandez, a teacher in San Jose
from 1836-1840, left his section to his children and went on to acquire and sell several other grants. With
secession in 1848, the land grant was patented to Alviso and the heirs of Jose Noriega and Jose Zenon
Fernandez. Typical of many land grants, by the time ownership was determined, sections had been
occupied by farmers who thought it public land. Settlement of these claims often took years.

The property was purchased by Francis Smith, orchardist, prior to 1900. During the time that it was
owned by Smith, there were no recorded improvements on the subject parcel. The subject parcel was
part of lots 11 and 12 of the Subdivision of the Francis Smith Tract in the Quito Rancho, recorded June 20,
1896 in Book "I" of Maps, page 81. The subject parcel was part of a subdivision surveyed and recorded on
May 3, 1922 by Charles Harrmann of Harrmann Bros. Surveyors and Civil Engineers. On May 16, 1922, the
subject parcel was part of a 10.24 acre plot sold without improvements to J.E. and Matilda J.
Wiesendanger. 2 The Wiesendanger family had lived on Campbell Avenue in 1910, when the U.S. Census

1
    Laffey, G.A, Historic Themes for the City of San Jose
2
    Deed J.E. and Matilda I Wiesendanger



DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                         *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                                  #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                      x Continuation     Update



Page 13      of 28                             *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                          *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

listed James Edwin as working on a fruit ranch. In the 1920 U.S. Census the family is listed as living on the
subject property, but may not have had recorded ownership. When the subject property was purchased,
the family consisted of James E. and D. Matilda and children, Delphi 23, Alicia 20, Mable18, and William
16. After five years, the family moved to Saratoga 3 and the 10 acre parcel containing the existing house,
garage and out buildings, was sold to A.E. and Lillian Rae, 4 The Rae's continued working the orchards and
living on the property until 1953. During this period there is no information that the Rae's operated a
road-side fruit stand, and there is no existing shed or evidence that they had a fruit stand before Saratoga
Avenue was widened from two lanes, one in each direction, to the existing alignment. The property was
sold to James W. Wayne, an individual acting as a trustee for a family trust on, August 5, 1953. During the
City of San Jose's extensive expansion era in the 1950's, the parcel was annexed as part of Boynton
No.12, on June 26, 1958. With commercial development extended along Saratoga Avenue and west from
Stevens Creek Blvd, the James and Linda Wayne Family Partnership converted the residential building to
commercial use and subdivided the 10.24 acre parcel, selling the subject commercial parcel APN 303-25-
004 to Hans Paul and Maury Hager February 27, 1989. By that time the building had been zoned C-1 and
for many years had been used commercially as shown on permits filed with the City of San Jose on June 3,
1977 to repair water and termite damage that indicate the commercial use was already established. 5 The
permit included removal of stucco and repair of studs and electric work on the North, West and South
sides. Additional permits have been issued for repairs and code compliance that further removed historic
materials and added contemporary ones. Another subdivision of the parcel created the adjacent parcel
where the La Terrazo Apartment building was developed and established the subject parcel APN 303-25-
056. The Harker School Foundation purchased the property from Hans and Maury Hager on November 02,
       6
2000. Since that time the buildings have been remodeled and used for educational purposes.

EVALUATION OF SIGNIFICANCE

The property was evaluated using the criteria of the City of San Jose Historic Preservation Ordinance; the
California Register of Historic Resources, and the National Register of Historic Places. The property is
evaluated within the historical context of the later years of the Inter-War Era 1919-1945 when the existing
buildings were constructed,c.1922.

Summary: Evaluated as a unit, the property does not retain integrity of the primary period of significance
1922-1958, when the parcel was part of a 10.24 acre fruit ranch, and there was a front set-back and
agricultural out-building associated with the house. If one considers the house as an individual resource,
the architecture and associations do not achieve significance under any of the criteria established by the

3
 Voter Registration, Santa Clara County 1930-1942
4
 Deed J.E. and Matilda I. Weisendanger to A. M. and Lillian Rae; May 16, 1922 Recorded May 18, 1922 Book 554 of Deeds, page
137
5
    City of San Jose Building Permit #03477, June 3, 1977
6
    Deed: Hans P & Maury Hager to Harker School Foundation, Doc. # 15443690



DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                        *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 14      of 28                     *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                  *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

City of San Jose, the California Register of Historic Resources or the National Register of Historic Places.

San Jose Historic Landmark

The San Jose Historic Preservation Ordinance #17927, as amended, contains the criteria that were used to
evaluate the property and building. The criteria are as follows.

Historical, Architectural, Cultural, Aesthetic or Engineering Interest or Value of an Historical Nature is
defined as, "historical, architectural, cultural, aesthetic, or engineering interest or value of an historical
nature" shall mean a quality that derives from, is based upon, or related to any of the following factors:

1. Identification or association with persons, eras or events that have contributed to local, regional, state or
national history, heritage or culture in a distinctive, significant or important way;

2. Identification as, or association with, a distinctive, significant or important work or
vestige:
        a. Of an architectural style, design or method of construction;
        b. Of a master architect, builder, artist or craftsman;
        c. Of high artistic merit;
        d. The totality of which comprises a distinctive, significant or important work or vestige whose
                component parts may lack the same attributes;
        e. That has yielded or is substantially likely to yield information of value about history,
                architecture, engineering, culture or aesthetics, or that provides for existing and future
                generations an example of the physical surroundings in which past generations lived or
                worked; or
        f. That the construction materials or engineering methods used in the proposed landmark are
                unusual or significant or uniquely effective.

       San Jose Historic Landmarks Commission's Evaluation for Significance establishes the following
       levels of significance:
               33 and above Evaluate for City Landmark
               32-0       Non-significant

Evaluation of Significance under San Jose Landmark Criteria:

Criteria #1. Identification or association with persons, eras or events that have contributed to local,
regional, state or national history, heritage or culture in a distinctive, significant or important way;

       The subject property is associated with the Inter-war Era and small fruit ranch operations.
       However, the association is typical of many such properties in Santa Clara County during the
       second and third quarter of the past century. The families associated with the property were not
       found to have individually contributed to San Jose's history, heritage or culture in a distinctive,


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                            #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                x Continuation     Update



Page 15      of 28                       *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                    *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

       significant or important way.

Criteria #2. Identification as, or association with, a distinctive, significant or important work or vestige:

       Criteria #2 (a) Of an architectural style, design or method of construction;

                  The buildings are not significant architecture or of unusual, artistic or high quality
                  vernacular design or construction. Much finer examples of the Prairie Style architecture
                  exist in San Jose.

       Criteria #2 (b) Of a master architect, builder, artist or craftsman;

                  The buildings were not found to be the work of a master architect, builder or artesian.

       Criteria #2 (c) Of high artistic merit

                  The buildings are not of high artistic merit.

       Criteria # 2 (d). The totality of which comprises a distinctive, significant or important work or
       vestige whose component parts may lack the same attributes

                  The property is typical of many former ranch parcels in the west San Jose area of Santa
                  Clara County. It is composed of one former house and remodeled garage. The current
                  setting and remodeled buildings do not provide a sense of how a fruit ranch would have
                  operated.

       Criteria #2 (e) That has yielded or is substantially likely to yield information of value about history,
       architecture, engineering, culture or aesthetics, or that provides for existing and future generations
       an example of the physical surroundings in which past generations lived or worked

                  The site is adjacent to Saratoga Avenue, a major city street that has been widened
                  taking several feet of the subject property, and Interstate highway 280. The previous
                  excavation and development surrounding this parcel give it a very low probability for
                  containing important prehistoric material.

       Criteria #2 (f) That the construction materials or engineering methods used in the proposed
       landmark are unusual or significant or uniquely effective.

                  The buildings are common wood frame with stucco covering and are not examples of
                  significant or uniquely effective materials or methods of construction.

The property and buildings was rated at 23.86 points, within the category that is considered non-


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                  *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 16      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

significant. The Tally sheet is attached to this document

California Register of Historic Resources- Eligibility

The criteria for listing historical resources in the California Register are consistent with those developed by
the National Park Service for listing resources in the National Register of Historic Places, but have been
modified for state use in order to include a range of historical resources which better reflect the history of
California. An historical resource must be significant at the local, state or national level under one or more
of the following four criteria;
        1. It is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of
        local or regional history or the cultural heritage of California or the United States.
        2. It is associated with the lives of persons important to local, California, or national history;
        3. It embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of
        construction, or represents the work of a master or possesses high artistic values; or
        4. It has yielded, or is likely to yield, information important to the prehistory or history of the
        local area, California, or the nations.

In addition, the resource must retain enough of its historic character or appearance to be recognizable as
a historic property, and to convey the reason for its significance.
Architectural and historic integrity are determined by the presence of seven attributes, location, design,
setting, materials, workmanship, feeling and association which together form the ability of a property to
convey its significance (National Register Bulletin ­ How to Apply the National Register Criteria for
Evaluation; page 44-47). The California Register of Historic Resources defines the threshold for integrity if
the property meets some of the aspects. The site retains the aspect of location, all other aspects are
diminished by the changes that have occurred to the setting and remodeling of the buildings. Therefore
the aspects of design, materials, workmanship setting and feeling are not represented in the property .
Because the property meets the threshold of retaining some of the elements of integrity, the site was
evaluated under the criteria the California Register for Historic Resources.

California Register of Historic Resources Evaluation:
It is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of local or
regional history or the cultural heritage of California or the United States.
          The property is associated with the J.B. and Matilda J. Wiesendanger Family that was part of,
          although a very small and not a significant contributor to, the agricultural economy of the Santa
          Clara Valley during the 1920's. Like many others it appears they sold fruit to brokers and at local
          outlets.
 It is associated with the lives of persons important to local, California, or national history;
          There is no evidence that persons who lived in the house were involved in significant historical
          developments in San Jose, California or the nation.
 It embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of construction, or
represents the work of a master or possesses high artistic values;
          The house (primary building on the property) is a modest vernacular version of the Prairie Style.


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                           #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                               x Continuation     Update



Page 17      of 28                     *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                  *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update

        Although the style was not extremely popular in San Jose there are several fine examples in
        other areas of the City that retain their settings and exhibit artistic architecture. This building
        does not possess high artistic values.
It has yielded, or is likely to yield, information important to the prehistory or history of the local area,
California, or the nations.
        The site has a very low probability to yield information important to the prehistory or history
        due to extensive development and construction in close proximity that has not produced
        important materials.
The property does not meet the criteria of the California Register of Historic Resources.


National Register of Historic Places

The criteria and standards of the National Register of Historic Places are similar to those of the California
Register of Historic Resources, however they are more demanding requiring that a property posses most if
not all aspects of integrity. The subject property does not meet that standard. Property that is not
eligible for listing in the California Register is not eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic
Places.

PROPOSED ACTION AND CEQA STATUS

The property has been proposed for inclusion in a master plan developed for the Harker Academy.
PDC 10-917 describes a Planned Development Zoning for a private school Master Plan to demolish existing
buildings and approve 316,400 gross square feet of new construction on a 15.9 gross acre site.

The Master Plan proposes to demolish the existing buildings as part of the expanded educational campus.
The Planned Development Zoning is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality
Act (CEQA). CEQA defines a historic resource to be one that is eligible for listing in the California Register
of Historic Resources, the National Register of Historic Places or certain California Historic Landmarks.
Property that is not eligible for listing in either register is not considered a significant historic resource
under CEQA. The alteration or removal of non-significant buildings does not require mitigation to achieve
a level of less than significant impact.




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                 *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                                   #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                       x Continuation     Update



Page 18      of 28                              *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                           *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update




Sketch Map- location of the subject parperty.




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                         *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 19      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update




Source: Google Earth Pro




B 12: Sources Consulted:

Unpublished:


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                                #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                    x Continuation     Update



Page 20      of 28                       *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                    *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update



City Building Permits 1943-2010

City of San Jose Historic Resources Inventory, San Jose Historic Landmarks Commission, 1987,Revised 1994, 1996,
1997- updated through August 2010

Deeds as noted in the text or footnotes.

Santa Clara County Voter Registration Rolls 1900-1942

United States Census 1900-1930

Published Works

Arbuckle, C., Clyde Arbuckle's History of San Jose, Smith McKay, San Jose, 1985

Arbuckle,C. and Rambo, R.,Santa Clara County Ranchos, The Rosicrucian Press, San Jose, CA,1968

Bielharz, E. and D. DeMers, San Jose California's First City, California Heritage Press, 1980

CITY DIRECTORIES FOR SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA;
1870, 1878, 1888-89, 1890, 1892 , 1893, 1894 ,1895-1969,1896-9,1900, 1902-03,1906-07,1909-10, 1915,1916,
1918, 1919, I920,1925,1930,1935 ,1940, 1941, 1942, 1943, 1945, 1949, 1950, 1951, 1952, 1955, 1956, 1958, 1959,
1960, 1963, 1965, 1968, 1970, 1972, 1974, 1978,

Douglas, Jack, Historical Footnotes of Santa Clara Valley, San Jose Historical Museum Association, San Jose, 1993,

Douglas, Jack, Historical Highlights of Santa Clara Valley, History San Jose, San Jose 2005

Guinn, J. M. History of the State of California and Biographical Record of the Coast Counties, California The
Chapman Publishing Company 1904

Hendy, G. and J.N. Bowman, The Spanish and Mexican Adobe and Other Buildings in the Nine San Francisco Bay
Counties, 1776-1850, part VII., Brancroft Library, Berkeley, 1940

Jacobson, Y. Passing Farms Enduring Values-California's Santa Clara Valley, W. Kaufmann, Los Altos, CA 1984

Loomis, Patricia, A Walk Through The Past- San Jose's Oak Hill Memorial Park, Argonauts Historical Society, The
Press, San Jose, 1998

Loomis, Patricia, SIGNPOSTS, San Jose Historical Museum, San Jose, 1982

Loomis, Patricia, SIGNPOSTS II, San Jose Historical Museum, San Jose, 1985

McAlester, V & L. A Field Guide to American Houses, A. Knopf, New York,1985


DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                      *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                               #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                                   x Continuation     Update



Page 21      of 28                      *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                   *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update



Munro-Fraser, History of Santa Clara County, California, Alley Bowen & Co., San Francisco, 1881

Payne, S. Santa Clara County, Harvest of Change, Windsor Publications, Northridge CA 1987

Rifkind, C. A Field Guide to American Architecture, Times Mirror, New York 1980

San Jose Mercury, Sunshine Fruit and Flowers, A Souvenir of the San Jose Mercury, 1885, San Jose Mercury
Publishing and Printing Co., 1895

San Jose Mercury, Sunshine Fruit and Flowers, A Souvenir of the San Jose Mercury, 1886, San Jose Mercury
Publishing and Printing Co., 1896

Santa Clara County Historical Heritage Commission, Santa Clara County Heritage Resource Inventory, San Jose, CA,
1979

Sawyer, Eugene T., History of Santa Clara County, Historic Records Company, Los Angles CA 1922

The Board of Trade of San Jose, Santa Clara County California- Vol1, No1, W.B. Bancroft & Co., San Francisco, CA
1887

Thomson & West, 1876 Historical Atlas of Santa Clara Co. California, (reprint) Smith McKay, San Jose, 1973

Whiffin, Marcus, American Architecture Since 1780, A Guide To
Styles, M.I.T.Press, Cambridge Mass. 1981


Repositories Consulted

Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library, San Jose Main Library, California Room.
Santa Clara County Recorder's Office, Official Records and Deeds
History San Jose, Archives




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                     *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 22      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update


Photographs: All photographs were taken on November 12, 2010 :




Photograph # 1 Front (north) façade




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 23      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update




Photograph #2 Former house, west façade




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 24      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update




Photograph # 3 Former house, east façade




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 25      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update




Photograph # 4 Rear (south) façade




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 26      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update




Photograph #5 Secondary building, apartment & garage (east side)




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 27      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update




Photograph # 6 Secondary building (south side)




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
 State of California The Resources Agency        Primary                                                          #
 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION              HRI #
 CONTINUATION
Page    3       of         SHEET *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)
                                                 Trinomial
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers            *Date                              x Continuation     Update



Page 28      of 28                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder) 480-500 Saratoga Ave
*Recorded by: Urban Programmers                 *Date    November 15, 2010             x Continuation Update




Photograph # 7 Secondary building,( north side) Two story buildings are apartments on the adjacent parcel.




DPR 523L (1/95)                                                                                *Required information
                     HISTORIC EVALUATION SHEET
HISTORIC RESOURCE NAME:
HISTORIC RESOURCE ADDRESS: 480 Saratoga Ave

A.   VISUAL QUALIFICATIONS

     1    EXTERIOR The site composition is undistinguished                    E   VG   G   FP
     2    STYLE Vernacular with Prairie style elements                        E   VG   G   FP
     3    DESIGNER unknown                                                    E   VG   G   FP
     4    CONSTRUCTION common materials- wood frame                           E   VG   G   FP
     5    SUPPORTIVE ELEMENTS Pepper and redwood trees                        E   VG   G   FP

B.   HISTORY/ASSOCIATION

     6    PERSON/ORGANIZATION none of significance                            E   VG   G   FP
     7    EVENT none of significance                                          E   VG   G   FP
     8    PATTERNS agricultural subdivision/ change in use to commercial      E   VG   G   FP
     9    AGE c. 1922                                                         E   VG   G   FP

C. ENVIRONMENTAL/CONTEXT

     10   CONTINUITY not in an area of importance                             E   VG   G   FP
     11   SETTING not compatible with the transitioning style of the area     E   VG   G   FP
     12   FAMILIARITY familiar to motorists on Saratoga Ave                   E   VG   G   FP

D. INTEGRITY

     13   CONDITION exhibits surface wear and wood deterioration              E   VG G     FP
     14   EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS alterations do not change overall character    E   VG G     FP
     15   STRUCTURAL REMOVALS unknown                                         E   VG G     FP
     16   SITE appears to be the original site                                E   VG G     FP

E.   REVERSIBILITY

     17   EXTERIOR structure is changed to accommodate commercial use         E   VG   G   FP

F.   ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS/BONUS POINTS

     18   INTERIOR VISUAL                                                     E   VG   G   FP
     19   INTERIOR HISTORY                                                    E   VG   G   FP
     20   INTERIOR ALTERATIONS                                                E   VG   G   FP
     21   INTERIOR REVERSIBILITY                                              E   VG   G   FP
     22   NATIONAL OR CALIFORNIA REGISTER                                     E   VG   G   FP

REVIEWED BY: Bonnie Bamburg                                                  DATE:10/22/2010
                                      EVALUATION TALLY SHEET
                                            (PART 1)

HISTORIC RESOURCE ADDRESS: 480 Saratoga Ave



A         VISUAL QUALITY/DESIGN          E    VG       G    FP

          1    EXTERIOR                 16     12       6       0   0
          2    STYLE                    10      8       4       0   4
          3    DESIGNER                  6      4       2       0   0
          4    CONSTRUCTION             10      8       4       0   0
          5    SUPPORTIVE ELEMENTS       8      6       3       0   3

                                                    Subtotal:       7

B.        HISTORY/ASSOCIATION

          6    PERSON/ORGANIZATION      20     15       7       0   0
          7    EVENT                    20     15       7       0   0
          8    PATTERNS                 12      9       5       0   5
          9    AGE                       8      6       3       0   3

                                                    Subtotal:       8

C.        ENVIRONMENTAL/ CONTEXT

          10   CONTINUITY                8      6       3       0   0
          11   SETTING                   6      4       2       0   0
          12   FAMILIARITY              10      8       4       0   8

                                             SUBTOTAL:              8

                                     A & C SUBTOTAL:                15
                                     B SUBTOTAL:                     8

                                     PRELIMINARY TOTAL:             23
                                     (sum of A. B. & C.)




San Jose Historic Tally .xls
                                            EVALUATION TALLY SHEET
                                                 (PART II)

HISTORIC RESOURCE ADDRESS: 480 Saratoga Ave



D.      INTEGRITY                            E    VG         G      FP

        13 CONDITION                              0.03 0.05         0.1        23 X   0.05 =    1.15
                                            SUBTOTAL A,B&C


        14 EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS                   0.05       0.1    0.2        15 X   0.05 =    0.75
                                            SUBTOTAL A&C
                                                  0.03 0.05         0.1         8X    0.03 =    0.24
                                            FROM B
        15 STRUCTURAL REMOVALS                       0.2     0.3    0.4        15 X     0=        0
                                            SUBTOTAL: A & C
                                                     0.1     0.2    0.4         8X      0=        0
                                            FROM B
        16 SITE                                      0.1     0.2    0.4         8X      0=        0
                                            FROM B


                                            INTEGRITY DEDUCTIONS SUBTOTAL                       2.14

                                            ADJUSTED SUBTOTAL:                   23 - 2.14     20.86
                                            (Preliminary Total minus Integrity Deductions)

                                            VALUE
E       REVERSIBILITY                        E VG            G      FP

        17 EXTERIOR                          3       3       2      2                             3
                                                           Total:          3
F.      ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
          BONUS POINTS

        18   INTERIOR HISTORY ASSOCIATION     3  3    1   0                0
        19   INTERIOR VISUAL QUALITY         3   3    1   0                0
        20   INTERIOR ALTERATIONS            4   4    3   1                0
        21   INTERIOR REVERSIBILITY          4   4    2   0                0
        22   NATIONAL OR CALIFORNIA REGISTER 20 15   10   0                0
                                            BONUS POINTS SUBTOTAL:                                0

                                            ADJUSTED TOTAL:                                    23.86




San Jose Historic Tally .xls
                                           MEMORANDUM


Date:             February 25, 2011

To:               Mike Bassoni, The Harker School

Copy To:          Ray Hashimoto, HMH, Inc.

From:             Jane Bierstedt

Subject:          The Harker School Master Plan Transportation Analysis
                                                                                                           SJ10-1193

This memorandum presents the results of the focused transportation analysis conducted for The
Harker School Master Plan, a senior high school facility located at 500 Saratoga Avenue in San
Jose, California. An aerial showing the school's location is included as Figure 1. The existing site
plan is shown on Figure 2. The Master Plan envisions existing facilities being removed (including
classroom and administrative buildings and sports facilities such locker rooms and gymnasium)
and new facilities being constructed (including approximately 300,000 square feet (sf) of buildings
- classrooms, gymnasium, student union building, and performing arts center and a new turf
soccer field). The Master Plan will allow a net addition of up to 108,240 square feet of building
area but no increase in enrollment. A new entry plaza and visitor parking area will also be
created. The conceptual site plan showing the potential new facilities is presented on Figure 3.

The transportation analysis was conducted to evaluative traffic issues identified by City staff and
for use in the master plan's California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) clearance document.

SCOPE OF TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS

The transportation analysis contains:

         A description of current on-site vehicular circulation and student pick-up and drop-off
         activities

         A description of the proposed site plan modifications and the associated transportation
         characteristics

         A review of traffic operations on Saratoga Avenue in the vicinity of the school including:

             1. Left-turn demand (and turn pocket storage length) into the site from southbound
                Saratoga Avenue

             2.   Left-turn demand onto the northbound and southbound I-280 on-ramps

             3. Conflicts between the left-turn movement onto the southbound I-280 on-ramp
                and northbound school traffic through the intersections of Saratoga
                Avenue/Moorpark Avenue and Saratoga Avenue/I-280 southbound on-ramp

             4. Conflicts on northbound Saratoga Avenue between school traffic entering the site
                and traffic turning right from the I-280 northbound off-ramp


             160 West Santa Clara Street, Suite 675, San Jose CA 95113 (408) 278-1700 Fax (408) 278-1717
                                                  www.fehrandpeers.com
Mike Bassoni
February 25, 2011
Page 2 of 8



            5. Back-ups onto I-280

            6. Signal operations and progression on Saratoga Avenue

        Discussion of other traffic issues:

            1. Traffic operations of the Saratoga Avenue/Harker School driveway intersection

            2. Americans with Disability Act (ADA) compliance on the northeast corner of the
               driveway's intersection with Saratoga Avenue

The City has also requested a pedestrian access and circulation plan that shows how onsite
pedestrian paths will be linked to the public sidewalk on Saratoga Avenue. HMH, Inc. will prepare
the pedestrian circulation plan. The conceptual ADA accessible paths of travel are shown on the
Master Plan site plan on Figure 3.

EXISITNG ON-SITE CONDITIONS

An aerial showing the school's location is included on Figure 1 and the existing site plan is shown
on Figure 2. The school has one driveway located on Saratoga Avenue across from the
northbound I-280 on-ramp. The internal circulation system is shaped like a sideways "Y" with one
circulation road along the northern border and the other along the southern border of the site with
the school facilities in the middle. The two internal roadways meet approximately 50 feet east of
the main entry on Saratoga Avenue and no other internal connections are provided. School
personnel manually direct traffic at the on-site intersection during peak hours so that traffic does
not extend onto Saratoga Avenue.

The school has approximately 325 parking spaces plus 10 ADA spaces. The school currently has
690 students of which 140 are allowed to park onsite. The other students are dropped-off and
picked-up at the school or use the intercampus shuttle bus. Current student drop-off and pick-up
activities were observed and are described below.

Existing Student Pick-Up and Drop-Off Activities

Fehr & Peers observed student drop-off and pick-up activities and on-site circulation patterns in
February 2011. Student drop-off activities were observed during the peak activity period from
7:30 am to 8:10 am. (School starts at 8:00 am.) Students were dropped-off along the curb areas
shown on Figures 3 and 4. Vehicles use several routes to circulate through the parking lot after
dropping off the students to return to the Saratoga Avenue. Queues of up to 16 vehicles were
observed. However, typical queue lengths were between 5 and 12 vehicles. Between 7:45 am
and 8:00 am school personnel were present to direct traffic and expedite drop-off activities.

Student pick-up activities were observed from 4:15 pm to 5:10 pm (the peak activity period).
Many students have afterschool activities and some parents were in the parking lot waiting to
pick-up their children (estimated to be approximately 20 vehicles at the beginning of the
observation period). Queues of vehicles waiting at the curb ranged from three to eight vehicles.
Some vehicles parked in the lot as opposed to waiting at the curb (a total of approximately 15 to
20 during the observation period). The shuttle bus arrived at 5:00 pm and left at approximately
5:10 pm.
Mike Bassoni
February 25, 2011
Page 3 of 8



Existing Shuttle Bus Operations

The Harker School provides an intercampus shuttle service to assist parents in dropping-off and
picking-up their children, especially if they have two or more students on separate campuses. A
parent may drop-off their child at any campus in the morning and as long as they are within the
approved shuttle schedule, the student will be transported to the appropriate campus in time for
class. The shuttle bus operates in the afternoon to facilitate parent pick-up and the sports
programs. The intercampus shuttle schedule is attached.

SITE DESCRIPTION AND PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS

The Master Plan includes removing existing facilities and adding new facilities including
classrooms, gymnasium, student union building, and performing arts center and a new turf soccer
field. The parking areas along the north side of the site will be reconfigured and the surface
parking lots near the school building entrance will be replaced with a new entry plaza providing
visitor parking. In addition, underground parking will be provided creating a total of approximately
400 parking spaces, or a net increase of about 75 spaces.

Proposed On-site Vehicle Circulation and Student Pick-Up and Drop-Off Activities

The Master Plan's on-site vehicle circulation system is very similar to the existing system with the
exception of the new circular entry plaza with visitor parking and the new parking garage. (See
Figure 5.) While the plaza adds a unique design feature, it could create some driver confusion.
The vehicular circulation areas and direction of travel should be made clear and not obfuscated
through intricate pavement patterns. Plus it is unlikely that drivers exiting the garage will circulate
through the plaza. Therefore the southern outside ring should accommodate two-way traffic while
the inside ring would accommodate one-way traffic. The amount of curb space dedicated to
student pick-up and drop-off appears to only accommodate six vehicles. It is recommended that a
minimum of nine vehicles be accommodated. It is also recommended that the entry plaza be
reviewed carefully regarding vehicular and pedestrian access and circulation, garage driveway
and loading dock design, and drop-off/pick-up activities during the design phase. A "Keep Clear"
pavement legend or similar marking may be needed to ensure that vehicles do not block the
garage driveway.

SARATOGA AVENUE FIELD OBSERVATIONS AND DATA COLLECTION

Fehr & Peers conducted field observations of the traffic operations on Saratoga Avenue in the
vicinity of The Harker School and the adjacent I-280 interchange during the morning peak period
and the evening peak period on Wednesday, November 17, 2010 and again on February 9, 2011.
The purpose of these observations was to identify the extent Harker School traffic contributed to
congestion and queuing. Observations included:

        Left-turn demand into the school site from southbound Saratoga Avenue

        Left-turn demand onto the northbound and southbound I-280 on-ramps

        Conflicts between the left-turn movement onto the southbound I-280 on-ramp and
        northbound school traffic through the intersections of Saratoga Avenue/Moorpark Avenue
        and Saratoga Avenue/I-280 southbound on-ramp

        Conflicts on northbound Saratoga Avenue between school traffic entering the site and
        traffic turning right from the I-280 northbound off-ramp
Mike Bassoni
February 25, 2011
Page 4 of 8



        Back-ups onto I-280

        Signal operations and progression on Saratoga Avenue

Field Observations

The results of the field observations are discussed below:

Southbound Left Turns into the School Driveway

Vehicles traveling southbound on Saratoga Avenue and turning left into the school driveway
backed-out of the left-turn pocket into the adjacent travel lane a few times during the morning and
evening peak periods. (The adjacent lane is a left-turn lane for the southbound I-280 on-ramp. It
is congested and the vehicles backing out of the pocket did not affect its operations.) Traffic
counts and queue length surveys were conducted to measure the number of occurrences and to
                                             th
determine the length of the maximum (85 percentile) queue. The results are described in the
next subsection. A few vehicles were observed in the left-turn pocket that were headed for the
southbound I-280 on-ramp. These vehicles essentially blocked the lane until the signal changed
for the southbound through movement and then they continued through the intersection. It is
recommended that pavement legends be added to indicate the "destinations" of the lanes to
minimize these occurrences.

Left Turns onto I-280 Northbound On-Ramp

The I-280 northbound on-ramp is controlled by ramp meters. Traffic traveling northbound on
Saratoga Avenue and turning left plus southbound Saratoga Avenue turning right onto the on-
ramp were observed to often fill up the on-ramp causing left-turning traffic to extend across the
southbound through lanes during the morning peak period. The queuing is caused by the
combined northbound left-turn and southbound right-turn vehicle demand exceeding the on-ramp
capacity and is not associated with the school driveway's operations.

Left Turns onto I-280 Southbound On-Ramp

No conflicts were observed between the left-turn movement onto the southbound I-280 on-ramp
and northbound school traffic through the intersections of Saratoga Avenue/Moorpark Avenue
and Saratoga Avenue/I-280 southbound on-ramp.

Left Turns onto I-280 Southbound On-Ramp and Northbound School Traffic

Queues on northbound Saratoga Avenue at the intersection of the school's driveway extended
just past the northbound off-ramp but not to the southbound I-280 on-ramp nor to Moorpark
Avenue during both the AM and PM peak hours. Queues that did occur were moving queues in
the outside lane. Northbound vehicles would move over to the center lane where there was plenty
of capacity to bypass the queue of vehicles turning right into the school site.

Northbound Saratoga Entering School Traffic and Traffic Turning Right from the I-280
Northbound Off-Ramp

There was some congestion on northbound Saratoga Avenue between the school driveway and
the I-280 northbound off-ramp. The congestion is partly due to vehicles turning right to enter the
school site driving slowly due to the tight curb radii and placement of the on-site circulation
roadway. (Vehicles essentially make a U-turn.) Counts were conducted to measure the traffic
volume on the northbound I-280 off-ramp turning right onto northbound Saratoga Avenue and to
observe the queue lengths.
Mike Bassoni
February 25, 2011
Page 5 of 8



Back-ups on I-280

Back-ups occur on I-280 in the vicinity of Saratoga Avenue. Back-ups were observed on
northbound I-280 during the PM peak period. Queues extended on the northbound I-280 off-ramp
from both northbound and southbound Saratoga Avenue onto northbound I-280 as the vehicles
demand exceeds the ramp's storage capacity.

Traffic Signal Timings and Progression

During the observations it was determined the traffic signal timings and progression could be
improved. It is very likely that traffic volumes have changed since the timings and offsets were
set.

Data Collection

Turning movement counts were conducted at the signalized intersection of Saratoga Avenue and
the school driveway during the AM and PM peak periods (7:00 am to 9:00 am and 4:00 pm to
6:00 pm). Traffic volumes on the northbound I-280 off-ramp to northbound Saratoga Avenue were
also counted during the same time periods. Queues of vehicles turning left into the school site
were measured and queues on the off-ramp were estimated during the traffic counts.

Intersection Counts

The intersection lane configuration and AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes are illustrated
below:
Mike Bassoni
February 25, 2011
Page 6 of 8



School Trip Generation

School vehicle trip generation was obtained from the counts. The school generates 820 AM peak
hour trips (415 in and 405 out) and 395 PM peak hour trips (181 in and 214 out). Based on the
existing student population of 690 students, the school currently generates 1.19 AM peak hour
trips per student (0.60 trip in and 0.59 trips out) and 0.57 PM peak hour trips per student (0.26 in
and 0.31 trips out). The results are similar to trip generation surveys conducted in 1997 and 1998
which averaged to 1.17 AM peak hour trips per student and 0.66 PM peak hour trips per student.

Queue Lengths

The queue length survey results are attached. The southbound left-turn pocket storage length is
100 feet with a 50-foot taper. The queue of vehicles turning left into the school site extended out
of the left-turn pocket three times during the morning peak two-hour period and twice during the
evening period. Twice during the evening period vehicles headed toward the I-280 southbound
on-ramp erroneously got into The Harker School left-turn pocket and blocked the movement.
Additional field visits were conducted to observe the left-turn queues. The maximum observed
queue was eleven (11) vehicles during the AM peak hour. A left-turn pocket storage area of 275
feet (assumed 25 feet per vehicle) would accommodate this queue. The left-turn pocket can be
extended to a maximum of 300 feet and still maintain the left-turn pocket to northbound Kiely
Boulevard. However, landscaping would need to be removed.

TRAFFIC OPERATIONS AT DRIVEWAY INTERSECTION

Level of service calculations were conducted to evaluate operations of the intersection of the
school driveway and Saratoga Avenue and to determine the required pocket length for the left-
turn pocket into the site. Level of service is a qualitative description of intersection operations
ranging from LOS A (good operations with little or no delay) to LOS F (stop and go conditions
with excessive delays). LOS definitions for signalized intersections are attached.

Existing Operations

Using the city-approved Traffix software, existing peak hour volumes, lane configuration, and field
measured signal cycle lengths, the intersection is calculated as operating at LOS C (28 seconds
of delay per vehicle) during the AM peak hour and LOS B (20 seconds of delay per vehicle)
during the PM peak hour.

Traffix evaluates intersection operations in isolation and is appropriate for intersections that are
not affected by traffic queues extending from adjacent intersections. Therefore, it does not reflect
actual intersection operations at the subject intersection. The intersection was also evaluated
using Synchro, a software package that takes into account the interaction of closely-spaced
intersections. Using Synchro, the intersection is calculated as operating at LOS D (36 seconds)
during the AM peak hour and LOS C (24 seconds) during the PM peak hour.
       th
The 85 percentile queue in the southbound left-turn lane based on the Synchro output is 135
             th
feet. The 85 percentile peak hour queue is used to determine the length of left-turn pocket
storage areas. The left-turn pocket storage area could be extended to 150 feet to accommodate
this queue. However, this would require removal of some of the landscaping in the median. Plus
since the adjacent lane is congested, queues in that lane would block vehicles from entering it.
So the operational improvements would be minimal.
Mike Bassoni
February 25, 2011
Page 7 of 8



Operations with the Master Plan

The Master Plan is expected to affect the amount of traffic generated by the school. It will reduce
the amount of traffic on typical days; by providing more on-site parking, more students will be
allowed to drive themselves to school as opposed to having their parents drive them. This will
replace two-way trips with one-way trips thus reducing the amount of outbound traffic during the
AM peak hour and the amount of inbound traffic during the PM peak hour. The AM peak hour
outbound trips are projected to be reduced by 65 vehicles. (Based on the proposed addition of 75
spaces, and assuming that 85 percent of them would be used by students in that one-hour
period.) The PM peak hour inbound trips are estimated to be reduced by 30 trips based on the
ratio of PM peak hour trips to AM peak hour trips. The intersection operations were re-evaluated
with these trip reductions as presented in Table 1.

Additional school traffic reductions could result from traffic management strategies such as
increased shuttle bus service, carpool matching, additional remote student drop-off and pick-up
locations, and staggered start times. Fehr & Peers tested intersection operations with school
traffic reduced by 5 percent to determine delay reductions. The results are presented in Table 1.



                                       TABLE 1:
                  SARATOGA AVENUE/HARKER SCHOOL DRIVEWAY OPERATIONS

                      Scenario                         AM Peak Hour             PM Peak Hour
                                                     Delay        LOS         Delay        LOS
                       Existing                       35.8          D          24.5          C
                     Master Plan                      28.4          C          21.4          C
          With 5% School Traffic Reduction            25.1          C          18.9          B
 Source: Fehr & Peers, 2011


The per vehicle average delay at the intersection is projected to be reduced with the Master Plan
by approximately 3 to 7 seconds.

PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AT THE SCHOOL DRIVEWAY

Fehr & Peers identified Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) issues on the northeast corner of
Saratoga Avenue and the school driveway including the asphalt path width and pedestrian push
button location. The results of our review are presented on Figures 6a, 6b, and 6c. We are
including two curb ramp options, Caltrans Case G and Caltrans Case C. We prefer Case C as
shown in Option B.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Our recommendations are summarized below:

    1. Consider lengthening the storage area of the southbound left-turn pocket on Saratoga
       Avenue at the school driveway to 150 feet and consider the trade-off between the
       landscaping removal and minimal traffic operational improvement
    2. Add pavement legends for "Harker" and "I-280 S" to the southbound left-turn lane and
       adjacent lane (on Saratoga Avenue at the school driveway)
Mike Bassoni
February 25, 2011
Page 8 of 8



    3. Conduct a traffic engineering review of the new entry plaza and visitor parking area
       during the site design stage to ensure adequate vehicular circulation, pedestrian access
       and circulation, parking garage and loading dock designs, and to ensure that student
       drop-off and pick-up activities are accommodated
    4. Provide room for nine vehicles in the student drop-off and pick-up area (unless future
       field studies indicate that another number is more appropriate)
    5. Add a "Keep Clear" pavement legend or similar marking to ensure that v ehicles do not
       block the garage driveway
    6. Modify the northeast corner of the Saratoga Venue/Harker School driveway intersection
       and adjacent areas to improve pedestrian access and provide ADA accommodations per
       Figure 6a or 6b

CONCLUSIONS

The Master Plan will not result in traffic increases as it will not provide for increased enrollment
nor will the added facilities generate traffic during the peak hours. The Master Plan is expected to
decrease school-generated traffic by providing more student parking and therefore replacing
some two-way trips with one-way trips.

The site plan was reviewed and there are some recommendations regarding the new entry plaza
and visitor parking area including conducting a detailed traffic engineering review during the site
design stage. The parking garage layout, its driveway, and the loading dock should be included in
the review.

To improve operations at the intersection of Saratoga Avenue and the school driveway it is
recommended that pavement legends "Harker" and "I-280 S" be added to the southbound left-
turn lane and adjacent lane on Saratoga Avenue. It is also recommended that lengthening the
southbound left-turn pocket to 150 feet be considered. This would entail assessing the trade-off
between removing some of the landscaping in the median with the minimal traffic operational
improvement since the traffic in the adjacent lane blocks vehicles from reaching the pocket.

The northeast corner of the Saratoga Venue/Harker School driveway intersection can be
improved to meet ADA accommodations.
ATTACHMENTS
FIGURES
                           ue
                          en
                      Av
                     ga
                 to
                 ra
                Sa




                                Inte
                                    rsta
                                        te 2
                                            80




                                                           Moorpark Avenue




                                                                                      Harker School




                                                 Aerial Showing School Location and Site Layout
February 2011
SJ10-1193
                                                                                          Figure 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                Controlled by personnel
                                                                                                                         5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                during peak times
                                                                                                                                    EXISTING
                                                                                                                                   BUILDINGS                                                                                                               EXISTING MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL




                                                                                      í
                                                                                      ì
                                                                                      ë
                                                                                                       UE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1570 O
                                                                                                   EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        San Jo
                                                                                                AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Circulation Road
                                                                                             GA
                                                                                        TO




                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                      SHAW HALL
                                                                                     RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                 CLASSROOMS                                          EXISTING                                                         EXISTING CLASSROOMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                   · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · ·
                                                                                  SA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DANCE STUDIO                                                                 · · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ·
                                                                                                                                                        · · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · ·




                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                AQUATIC CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           24'                                                    THE H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING OFFICE                                                                                                    500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        · · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ·                                                                   SA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING                         EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POOL BLDG.                         LOCKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GYMNASIUM                                EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ROOM                                                                                   · · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ·    LIBRARY
                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING                                                                                            · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · ·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · ·




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
                                                                                                                                                 FOOTBALL STADIUM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       23'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING DOBBINS HALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            · · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ·

                                                                                                                                     Cir
                                                                                                                                        cul                                                                                                                                                                        Student drop-off
                                                                                                                                               atio
                                                                                                                                                   nR                                                                                                                                                              and pick-up area
                                                                                                                                                      oa
                                                                                                                                                               d
                                                                                                              INT
                                                                                                                 ER
                                                                                                                    ST
                                                                                                                      AT
                                                                                                                              E2
                                                                                                                                80

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING NICHOLS HALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             · · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING LOCKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROOM                                    EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · ·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PORTABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · ·




                                                                              Land Use Entitlements
                                                                                  Land Planning
                                                                              Landscape Architecture
                                                                                 Civil Engineering
                                                                                   Utility Design
                                                                                  Land Surveying
                                                                              Stormwater Compliance

                                                                        1570 Oakland Road    (408) 487-2200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NO            DATE
                                                                        San Jose, CA 95131      HMHca.com                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT N
      J10_PROJECTS\SJ10_1193_HARKERSCHOOL\SITE PLANS\358800SPEX.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAD DWG F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Harker School                                 DESIGNED

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWN BY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHECKED B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C HMH



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Existing Site Plan
                                                                      February 2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX
                                                                      SJ10-1193
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Figure 2
                                                                       THE HARKER SCHOOL
                                                                          500 SARATOGA AVE.
IAL




                                                                          SAN JOSE, CA 95129
                                                                                                                                          5'



                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                    BUILDINGS                                                                                 EXISTING MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1570 O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             San Jo



                                                                                                                                                                                                      25 PARKING SPACES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NEW PARKING LOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 110 PARKING SPACES



                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                          SHAW HALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING                 NEW GYMNASIUM                             NEW STUDENT UNION                   NEW MULTI-PURPOSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                             AQUATIC CENTER                                                                                                                                                                                            THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PLAYING FIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          POOL BLDG.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                         FOOTBALL STADIUM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      23'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEW "ORCHARD" QUAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING DOBBINS HALL
                                                                                                                                                         40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                              PA
                                                                                                                                                                RK
                                                                                                                                                                   ING
                                                                                                                                                                         SP
                                                                                                                                                                           AC
                                                                                                                                                                              ES
                                                                                                                                                                                   (TO
                                                                                                                                                                                         RE
                                                                                                                                                                                           MA
                                                                                                                                                                                              IN)




                                                                                                                                  INT                                                                                     NEW ENTRY PLAZA
                                                                                                                                     ER                                                                                   & VISITOR PARKING
                                                                                                                                        ST
                                                                                                                                               AT
                                                                                                                                                 E2                                                                              50 PARKING
                                                                                                                                                    80                                                                             SPACES                     NEW PERFORMING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARTS CENTER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NEW UNDERGROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GARAGE                                             EXISTING NICHOLS HALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          175 PARKING SPACES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAMP TO GARAGE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOADING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DOCK


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36'
      N:\PROJECTS\_SJ10_PROJECTS\SJ10_1193_HARKERSCHOOL\SITE PLANS\358800SP_REV_KLS.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCEPTUAL ADA ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL                                                                                                                                                                  NO            DAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                             TO BE IMPLEMENTED AT 1ST PD PERMIT                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT N

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAD DWG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DESIGNED
                                                                                                  Land Use Entitlements
                                                                                                      Land Planning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAWN BY
                                                                                                  Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHECKED
                                                                                                     Civil Engineering                                                                                                                                                                                  UP TO
                                                                                                       Utility Design                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE:
                                                                                                      Land Surveying
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UP TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE:
                                                                                                  Stormwater Compliance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C HMH
                                                                                            1570 Oakland Road    (408) 487-2200
                                                                                            San Jose, CA 95131      HMHca.com



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Harker School                                                             C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0     25    50         100

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Master Plan Conceptual Site Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1 INCH = 50 FEET
                                                                                          February 2011
                                                                                          SJ10-1193
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Figure 3
                                                                                           THE HARKER SCHOOL
                                                                                              500 SARATOGA AVE.
IAL




                                                                                              SAN JOSE, CA 95129
  Legend

            Vehicular circulation path

            Vehicle in drop-off
            and pick-up area

                                                                               Harker School




                                         Existing Student Drop-Off and Pick-Up Activities
February 2011
SJ10-1193
                                                                                   Figure 4
                                                          23'
                                                                                        50'
                               EXISTING                             NEW GYMNASIUM
                            AQUATIC CENTER




                                         EXISTING
                                        POOL BLDG.
                                         · · ·· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · ·




                                         NEW
                                          EWWE ENTRY PLAZA
                                                      LA
                                                       AZA
                                         & VISITOR
                                            IS     PARKING
                                               TOR P
                                             SIT
                                             SITO    ARK
                                                      RKIN
                                                        50 PARKING
                                                          SPACES                    NEW PERFORMING
                                                                                      ARTS CENTER

                                                                               NEW UNDERGROUND
                                                                                    GARAGE
                                                                                175 PARKING SPACES



                                                                                RAMP TO GARAGE

                                                                                                         LOADING
  Legend                                                                                                 DOCK


           Vehicular circulation path

           Vehicle in drop-off
           and pick-up area

           Vehicle parking spot

                                                                                                     Harker School




                                                          Proposed Student Drop-Off and Pick-Up Activities
February 2011
SJ10-1193
                                                                                                         Figure 5
                                           Harker School



                Pedestrian Access at School Driveway
                                 Existing Conditions
February 2011
SJ10-1193
                                              Figure 6a
                                           Harker School



                Pedestrian Access at School Driveway
                                            Option A
February 2011
SJ10-1193
                                              Figure 6b
                                           Harker School



                Pedestrian Access at School Driveway
                                            Option B
February 2011
SJ10-1193
                                              Figure 6c
                                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                 File Name        : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                              Site Code        : 00000001
                                                                                                                                              Start Date       : 1/12/2011
                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                                 HARKER SCHOOL
                       SARATOGA AVE                                                              SARATOGA AVE
                                                                    DRIVEWAY
                         Southbound                                                                  Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                     Westbound
  Start Time   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM      74      111     4       0      189          0       0     1    0        1    27 171 140         0           338          0       0     0       0           0       528
  07:15 AM     106      194     8       0      308          3      11    35    0      49 128 167 206            0           501          0       0     0       0           0       858
  07:30 AM     113      223    29       0      365         23      16 123      0    162 173 189 179             0           541          0       0     0       0           0      1068
  07:45 AM      93      264    28       0      385         32      33    80    0    145 155 238 132             0           525          0       0     0       0           0      1055
      Total    386      792    69       0     1247         58      60 239      0    357 483 765 657             0          1905          0       0     0       0           0      3509

  08:00 AM      95 249          9      0       353         26      17     50    0     93      12 343       166      0       521          0      0      0      0            0       967
  08:15 AM     100 302          4      0       406          0       2      3    0      5       5 392       190      0       587          0      0      0      0            0       998
  08:30 AM     122 280          3      0       405          1       0      6    0      7       9 455       143      0       607          0      0      0      0            0      1019
  08:45 AM      82 235          3      0       320          0       0      2    0      2      13 453       136      0       602          0      0      0      0            0       924
      Total    399 1066        19      0      1484         27      19     61    0    107      39 1643      635      0      2317          0      0      0      0            0      3908

 Grand Total   785 1858       88       0      2731        85       79    300    0    464    522 2408 1292           0      4222          0      0      0      0            0      7417
  Apprch %     28.7  68       3.2      0                 18.3      17    64.7   0           12.4  57 30.6           0                    0      0      0      0
    Total %    10.6 25.1      1.2      0       36.8       1.1      1.1      4   0     6.3      7 32.5 17.4          0       56.9         0      0      0      0            0




                                                           HARKER SCHOOL
                       SARATOGA AVE                                                                 SARATOGA AVE
                                                              DRIVEWAY
                         Southbound                                                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
                                                               Westbound
  Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
   07:30 AM 113 223               29       0      365   23   16 123      0  162              173 189        179      0      541          0       0      0      0           0      1068
   07:45 AM       93 264          28       0      385   32   33    80    0  145              155 238        132      0      525          0       0      0      0           0      1055
   08:00 AM       95 249           9       0      353   26   17    50    0   93               12 343        166      0      521          0       0      0      0           0       967
   08:15 AM 100 302                4       0      406    0    2     3    0    5                5 392        190      0      587          0       0      0      0           0       998
 Total Volume   401 1038          70       0    1509    81   68 256      0  405              345 1162       667      0     2174          0       0      0      0           0      4088
  % App. Total 26.6 68.8         4.6       0            20 16.8 63.2     0                  15.9 53.4      30.7      0                   0       0      0      0
         PHF .887 .859 .603 .000                 .929 .633 .515 .520 .000  .625             .499 .741      .878   .000      .926      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000         .957
                                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                                              Campbell, CA
                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                             tdsbay@cs.com                                                 File Name        : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                           Site Code        : 00000001
                                                                                                                                           Start Date       : 1/12/2011
                                                                                                                                           Page No          :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                              HARKER SCHOOL
                       SARATOGA AVE                                                           SARATOGA AVE
                                                                 DRIVEWAY
                         Southbound                                                               Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                  Westbound
  Start Time       Thru
               Right       Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM     55 310       6       0      371          4      11    23    0      38     36 425       82    0           543          0       0     0       0           0       952
   04:15 PM     90 365      10       0      465          6      12    21    0      39     22 493 100         0           615          0       0     0       0           0      1119
   04:30 PM     91 331       6       0      428          1      10    27    0      38     20 459       76    0           555          0       0     0       0           0      1021
   04:45 PM    102 385      12       0      499          8      12    15    0      35     34 461 105         0           600          0       0     0       0           0      1134
       Total   338 1391     34       0     1763         19      45    86    0    150 112 1838 363            0          2313          0       0     0       0           0      4226

   05:00 PM     88 414      11      0       513          7      20     32    0     59     37 451        131      0       619          0      0      0      0            0      1191
   05:15 PM     82 350       9      0       441         12      24     40    0     76     32 464         80      0       576          0      0      0      0            0      1093
   05:30 PM     99 342      17      0       458          7      14     23    0     44     29 493        157      0       679          0      0      0      0            0      1181
   05:45 PM     59 302      27      0       388          3      10     31    0     44     39 481        111      0       631          0      0      0      0            0      1063
       Total   328 1408     64      0      1800         29      68    126    0    223    137 1889       479      0      2505          0      0      0      0            0      4528

 Grand Total   666 2799     98      0      3563        48      113    212    0    373    249 3727       842      0      4818          0      0      0      0            0      8754
  Apprch %     18.7 78.6    2.8     0                 12.9     30.3   56.8   0            5.2 77.4      17.5     0                    0      0      0      0
    Total %     7.6  32     1.1     0       40.7       0.5      1.3    2.4   0     4.3    2.8 42.6       9.6     0          55        0      0      0      0            0




                                                           HARKER SCHOOL
                       SARATOGA AVE                                                              SARATOGA AVE
                                                              DRIVEWAY
                         Southbound                                                                Northbound                                 Eastbound
                                                               Westbound
  Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total             Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
   04:45 PM 102 385               12       0      499    8   12    15    0   35            34 461        105      0      600          0       0      0      0           0      1134
   05:00 PM       88 414          11       0      513    7   20    32    0   59            37 451        131      0      619          0       0      0      0           0      1191
   05:15 PM       82 350           9       0      441   12   24    40    0   76            32 464         80      0      576          0       0      0      0           0      1093
   05:30 PM       99 342          17       0      458    7   14    23    0   44            29 493        157      0      679          0       0      0      0           0      1181
 Total Volume   371 1491          49       0    1911    34   70 110      0  214           132 1869       473      0     2474          0       0      0      0           0      4599
  % App. Total 19.4       78     2.6       0          15.9 32.7 51.4     0                 5.3 75.5     19.1      0                   0       0      0      0
         PHF .909 .900 .721 .000                 .931 .708 .729 .688 .000  .704          .892 .948      .753   .000      .911      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000         .965
                                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                              (408) 377-2988
                                                                              tdsbay@cs.com                                                 File Name        : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                            Site Code        : 00000002
                                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 1/12/2011
                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                              NB I-280 RAMP to NB                                                         NB I-280 RAMP to SB
                                                               SARATOGA AVE                                                                SARATOGA AVE
                          Southbound                                                                 Northbound
                                                                    Westbound                                                                  Eastbound
  Start Time   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right Thru   Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
   07:00 AM       0       0     0       0           0     116      0     0     0     116       0     0    0     0               0     115     0     0     0     115          231
   07:15 AM       0       0     0       0           0     119      0     0     0     119       0     0    0     0               0     111     0     0     0     111          230
   07:30 AM       0       0     0       0           0     111      0     0     0     111       0     0    0     0               0      89     0     0     0       89         200
   07:45 AM       0       0     0       0           0     146      0     0     0     146       0     0    0     0               0     123     0     0     0     123          269
       Total      0       0     0       0           0     492      0     0     0     492       0     0    0     0               0     438     0     0     0     438          930

   08:00 AM       0      0      0      0            0    100      0     0     0     100       0      0      0      0            0    120      0      0      0     120       220
   08:15 AM       0      0      0      0            0    117      0     0     0     117       0      0      0      0            0    146      0      0      0     146       263
   08:30 AM       0      0      0      0            0    145      0     0     0     145       0      0      0      0            0    120      0      0      0     120       265
   08:45 AM       0      0      0      0            0    156      0     0     0     156       0      0      0      0            0    105      0      0      0     105       261
       Total      0      0      0      0            0    518      0     0     0     518       0      0      0      0            0    491      0      0      0     491      1009

 Grand Total      0      0      0      0            0 1010        0     0     0    1010       0      0      0      0            0    929      0      0      0     929      1939
  Apprch %        0      0      0      0               100        0     0     0               0      0      0      0                 100      0      0      0
    Total %       0      0      0      0            0 52.1        0     0     0     52.1      0      0      0      0            0    47.9     0      0      0     47.9




                                                           NB I-280 RAMP to NB                                                            NB I-280 RAMP to SB
                                                            SARATOGA AVE                                                                   SARATOGA AVE
                          Southbound                                                                  Northbound
                                                                 Westbound                                                                     Eastbound
  Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total               Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right Thru   Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
   07:45 AM        0       0       0       0        0 146       0     0    0    146           0       0      0      0           0     123      0      0      0    123       269
   08:00 AM        0       0       0       0        0 100       0     0    0    100           0       0      0      0           0     120      0      0      0    120       220
   08:15 AM        0       0       0       0        0 117       0     0    0    117           0       0      0      0           0     146      0      0      0    146       263
   08:30 AM        0       0       0       0        0 145       0     0    0    145           0       0      0      0           0     120      0      0      0    120       265
 Total Volume      0       0       0       0        0 508       0     0    0    508           0       0      0      0           0     509      0      0      0    509      1017
  % App. Total     0       0       0       0           100      0     0    0                  0       0      0      0                 100      0      0      0
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                 .000 .870 .000 .000 .000      .870        .000    .000   .000   .000      .000      .872   .000   .000   .000    .872      .945
                                                                       Traffic Data Service
                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                              (408) 377-2988
                                                                              tdsbay@cs.com                                                File Name         : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                           Site Code         : 00000002
                                                                                                                                           Start Date        : 1/12/2011
                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                             NB I-280 RAMP TO NB                                                         NB I-280 RAMP TO SB
                                                                SARATOGA AV                                                                SARATOGA AV
                          Southbound                                                                Northbound
                                                                   Westbound                                                                   Eastbound
  Start Time   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right Thru   Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM       0       0     0       0           0     193     0     0     0     193       0     0    0     0               0     171      0     0     0     171         364
   04:15 PM       0       0     0       0           0     205     0     0     0     205       0     0    0     0               0     252      0     0     0     252         457
   04:30 PM       0       0     0       0           0     206     0     0     0     206       0     0    0     0               0     225      0     0     0     225         431
   04:45 PM       0       0     0       0           0     197     0     0     0     197       0     0    0     0               0     346      0     0     0     346         543
       Total      0       0     0       0           0     801     0     0     0     801       0     0    0     0               0     994      0     0     0     994        1795

   05:00 PM       0      0      0      0            0    209      0     0     0     209      0      0      0      0            0 283          0      0      0     283       492
   05:15 PM       0      0      0      0            0    243      0     0     0     243      0      0      0      0            0 277          0      0      0     277       520
   05:30 PM       0      0      0      0            0    259      0     0     0     259      0      0      0      0            0 242          0      0      0     242       501
   05:45 PM       0      0      0      0            0    219      0     0     0     219      0      0      0      0            0 243          0      0      0     243       462
       Total      0      0      0      0            0    930      0     0     0     930      0      0      0      0            0 1045         0      0      0    1045      1975

 Grand Total      0      0      0      0            0 1731        0     0     0    1731      0      0      0      0            0 2039         0      0      0    2039      3770
  Apprch %        0      0      0      0               100        0     0     0              0      0      0      0               100         0      0      0
    Total %       0      0      0      0            0 45.9        0     0     0    45.9      0      0      0      0            0 54.1         0      0      0    54.1




                                                          NB I-280 RAMP TO NB                                                            NB I-280 RAMP TO SB
                                                             SARATOGA AV                                                                   SARATOGA AV
                          Southbound                                                                 Northbound
                                                                Westbound                                                                      Eastbound
  Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total              Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
   04:45 PM        0       0       0       0        0 197      0     0    0    197           0       0      0      0         0 346            0      0      0     346       543
   05:00 PM        0       0       0       0        0 209      0     0    0    209           0       0      0      0         0 283            0      0      0     283       492
   05:15 PM        0       0       0       0        0 243      0     0    0    243           0       0      0      0         0 277            0      0      0     277       520
   05:30 PM        0       0       0       0        0 259      0     0    0    259           0       0      0      0         0 242            0      0      0     242       501
 Total Volume      0       0       0       0        0 908      0     0    0    908           0       0      0      0         0 1148           0      0      0    1148      2056
  % App. Total     0       0       0       0           100     0     0    0                  0       0      0      0            100           0      0      0
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                 .000 .876 .000 .000 .000     .876        .000    .000   .000   .000      .000 .829        .000   .000   .000    .829       .947
