 




    Concept Report 




    Concept Plan 




    Public Involvement 




    Heritage Trail 
    Landscaping Evaluation 




    Photo Log 




    CTP Estimates     




    Environmental Review 




    Traffic Analysis 
        Tab 1 
           
     
                                                   Section 1 Table of Contents 
      
I.   Project Description and Purpose .................................................................................................  1 
II. Alignment Alternatives Considered .............................................................................................  1 
III. New Castle Heritage Trail ............................................................................................................  6 
IV. Public Involvement ......................................................................................................................  8 
V. Environmental Studies .................................................................................................................  9 
VI. Recommendations .......................................................................................................................  10 
VII. Implementation Plan and Cost Estimates 
                                           ....................................................................................  11 
 
I.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE 
     The First State Trail and Pathway Initiative aims to "establish a world class interconnected network 
     of shared use pathways and trails that will support nonmotorized travel and recreational trails 
     opportunities within the State of Delaware for Delawareans and visitors alike." 
     The New Castle Industrial Track Trail is a key element of the Initiative. When complete, the Industrial 
     Track Trail will provide a continuous active transportation connection between downtown 
     Wilmington and the Delaware River in New Castle, a distance of about seven miles. Portions of the 
     Trail are open; others are in various stages of construction, design, and planning. The only remaining 
     element to be studied is between the south end of the New Castle Heritage Trail at the intersection 
     of 8th Street and South Street/ Young Street and Battery Park in New Castle, a distance of about one
     third of a mile. The section of the existing New Castle Industrial Track Trail located south of 
     Delaware Street (SR 9) is also known as the New Castle Heritage Trail. 
     The purpose of this study is to evaluate alternatives to connect the Industrial Track Trail to Battery 
     Park. This study also evaluates the potential for upgrades to the existing Heritage Trail between 
     Delaware Street and 8th Street. See Figure 1 for a location map. 
      
II. ALIGNMENT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
     A project kickoff meeting was held on Thursday, February 28, 2013 to provide an overview of the 
     study's goals and limits. The project team identified four potential alignment alternatives. A 
     summary and discussion of each alternative may be found below. An alignment alternative map is 
     provided in Section 2. 
      
     Blue Alignment 
     The blue alignment alternative consists of directing trail users from the Heritage Trail to the center 
     of New Castle using the existing street network. For bicyclists, sharedlane markings, or sharrows, 
     would be installed within the travel lanes on several streets directing bicyclists to and from 
     downtown. Because some of these streets are oneway, different routes are preferred for inbound 
     and outbound routes. 
                                                

                                                                                                                                                    1 
 
            Figure
                 e 1: Location
                             n Map 
                 Not to Scale
     
         




                                      2 
 
        For inbound cyclists entering the City, this route would consist of the following streets: 
            South Street 
            7th Street  
            Tremont Street  
            5th Street  
            Foundry Street  
            4th Street  
            Delaware Street 
        The section along 5th Street is approximately 100 feet long and would require cyclists to go 
        against the flow of vehicular traffic. Additional signage and pavement markings (what is known 
        as a "contraflow" bicycle lane) would need to be provided along this section. 
        For outbound cyclists leaving the City, the route would consist of the following: 
            Delaware Street 
            5th Street  
            Tremont Street  
            7th Street  
            South Street 
    Pedestrians would use existing sidewalks. An inventory of the existing sidewalk network shows two 
    missing links the along blue alignment. There is no existing sidewalk on 7th Street, beginning 100 feet 
    east of South Street to Deemer Place, a distance of 400 feet. Also, at the southern end of the 
    Heritage Trail at the corner of 8th Street and Young Street/ South Street, there is a short sidewalk 
    gap in the vicinity of the Norfolk Southern railroad crossing. 
    One of the project stakeholders, the Historic New Castle Alliance (HNCA), has partnered with the 
    City of New Castle on a wayfinding project within and near Historic New Castle. The project's goals 
    includes placement of "Historic New Castle" cultural interest signs on roadways leading into the City, 
    parking signs to minimize congestion, pedestrian wayfinding signage, and improved business 
    signage. Improved wayfinding is a key recommendation from New Castle's 2000 Main Street 
    Assessment, 2009 City of New Castle Comprehensive Plan, and 2011 Community Wellness Initiative: 
    Walkability and Bikeability Assessment Report. The wayfinding project also has letters of support 
    and project contributions from Delaware Greenways, Bike Delaware, City of New Castle, New Castle 
    Historical Society, Delaware Historical Society, and New Castle Courthouse Museum. 
    The blue alignment complements these efforts and supports the signage project's goals of providing 
    easily accessible and safe routes into downtown for residents and visitors to participate in the City's 
    cultural, retail, and community activities. 
     
                                  




                                                                                                          3 
 
    Green Alignment 
    The green alignment alternative consists of an offalignment trail through two privatelyowned 
    parcels: (1) a parcel just west of South Street between the active Norfolk Southern railroad and 7th 
    Street where a railroad was formerly located, and (2) the former BrosiusEliason site. A midblock 
    crossing of 7th Street would be required approximately 200 feet west of South Street. 
    WR&A met with the BrosiusEliason owner on April 11, 2013 and he indicated that this property may 
    be redeveloped. Preliminary discussions indicated that he is supportive of the project. Many options 
    exist on how to route the trail through the parcel. Once through this parcel, a short trail segment is 
    needed between 3rd Street and the Battery Park Trail. 
    WR&A met with the railroad parcel owner on April 16, 2013. Preliminary discussions with the owner 
    indicate support for the trail project is not yet in place. 
    Traffic counts and a speed study were performed to determine the feasibility of an unsignalized mid
    block crossing across 7th Street. The most commonly used reference in evaluating unsignalized 
    crossings is National Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP) Report 562, "Improving 
    Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Crossings." NCHRP 562 includes a methodology for selecting 
    appropriate pedestrian crossing treatments based on traffic volumes, traffic speed, pedestrian 
    crossing volume, and other criteria. 
    The posted speed on 7th Street is 25 mph. The recorded 85th percentile speed is 27 mph. According 
    to DelDOT's 2012 Traffic Summary, an average of 4,516 vehicles travel this portion of 7th Street each 
    day. Traffic counts performed on May 8, 2013 indicate peak hour traffic volumes on 7th Street of 568 
    vehicles and 632 vehicles during the AM and PM peak hours respectively. 
    Due to the Industrial Track Trail network's several "missing links", there is no reliable method to 
    estimate future crossing demand once the network is completed. To address this uncertainty, 
    NCHRP 562 was consulted using the existing traffic volumes and speed on 7th Street with a range of 
    potential pedestrian crossing volumes. 
    It is reasonable to expect a pedestrian crossing volume in the range of 20 persons during the peak 
    hour once the Industrial Track Trail is connected to downtown New Castle and Battery Park. Because 
    20 persons per hour is the threshold between treatment options, both were considered in detail. 
    See Section 8 of this report for NCHRP worksheets for both options. 
    i.   Option 1: Fewer than 20 pedestrians per hour 
         Given the roadway and crossing characteristics, the NCHRP methodology calculates that a 
         pedestrian crossing volume of fewer than 20 persons per hour can use standard crosswalk 
         markings and signing. It notes that traffic calming strategies, such as raised medians or curb 
         extensions, should be considered. 
    ii. Option 2: Greater than 20 pedestrians per hour 
         NCHRP 562 recommends an "active or enhanced" device for a crossing volume of greater than 
         20 persons per hour. An "enhanced" device is displayed at all times. Such devices could include: 
             Signs and highvisibility markings  
             Instreet pedestrian crossing signs  
             Continuouslyoperating overhead flashing beacons 
                                  

                                                                                                            4 
 
        An "active" device is displayed when a pedestrian is present. Such devices could include: 
            Pedestrian crossing flags  
            Pedestrianactuated overhead flashing beacons, which were installed at the Industrial Track 
            Trail crossing of Boulden Boulevard 
            Pedestrianactuated rapid rectangular flashing beacons (RRFB), which are under 
            construction at the Industrial Track Trail crossing of Delaware Street 
            Pedestrianactuated inroadway warning lights  
    The recommended crossing treatment is Option 1 using standard crosswalk markings and signing. A 
    similar midblock crossing is being installed on 7th Street, approximately 650 feet to the west, as part 
    of the Washington Street Sidewalks project (DelDOT Contract T200201104). Due to the limited right 
    of way width and the close proximity of the existing buildings to the roadway, it may not be feasible 
    to install curb extensions or a median along 7th Street without eliminating the 5foot 
    shoulder/bicycle lane or impacting existing buildings. 
    After construction, it is recommended to monitor the trail for demand and safety. If and when trail 
    demand increases, an active or enhanced device should be considered. 
     
    Red Alignment, Option A 
    The red alignment alternative consists of directing trail users between the Heritage Trail and Battery 
    Park via South Street. Similar to the blue alignment, bicyclists would use the street with sharrows 
    installed within the travel lanes. 
    Heavier traffic volumes exist on the section of South Street between 7th Street and 6th Street. This 
    section serves as a primary route for vehicles travelling to and from State Route 9 and downtown. 
    Traffic counts show that leaving downtown towards State Route 9, a high percentage of outbound 
    vehicles turn right from westbound 6th Street to northbound South Street, and then make an 
    immediate left onto 7th Street. Traffic counts indicate that 83% and 94% of northbound South Street 
    vehicles in the AM and PM peak hours respectively turn left onto westbound 7th Street. This zigzag 
    pattern was also documented in reverse for vehicles entering the center of New Castle. 
    The intersection configuration at 7th Street and South Street is irregular; the 7th Street legs (east and 
    west legs) of the intersection are offset and the northbound approach is a free movement while all 
    other approaches are STOP controlled. 
    The traffic flow patterns and irregular intersection operations make bicycle access challenging, 
    especially for southbound cyclists entering New Castle. The feasibility of installing an allway STOP or 
    a halfsignal should be examined at final design. A halfsignal would restrict northbound South 
    Street leftturn movements to westbound 7th Street when a cyclist is crossing the west leg of the 
    intersection. 
                                  




                                                                                                             5 
 
    Under this option pedestrians would use sidewalk along the east side of South Street. The 
    connectivity of the sidewalk network varies as follows: 
        Beginning at the southern end of the Heritage Trail at the corner of 8th Street and Young Street/ 
        South Street, there is a short sidewalk gap in the vicinity of the Norfolk Southern railroad 
        crossing. 
        There is an existing fourfootwide sidewalk from approximately 30 feet south of the railroad to 
        7th Street. 
        From 7th Street to 3rd Street, the existing sidewalk is being reconstructed as part of the 
        Washington Street Sidewalks project (DelDOT Contract T200201104). Construction began in 
        2013 and is scheduled to be complete in 2014. The proposed roadway typical section consists of 
        two 11foot travel lanes and one 11foot shoulder/parking area along the east side of the 
        roadway. 
        There are no pedestrian facilities connecting from 3rd Street into Battery Park. As shown, the red 
        alignment is routed into Battery Park near the existing parking lot at the 3rd Street and South 
        Street intersection. The City of New Castle and the Trustees of New Castle Common are in the 
        process of developing revitalization plans for Battery Park. Any facilities between 3rd Street and 
        the Park should be coordinated to ensure a smooth and consistent connection. 
 
    Red Alignment, Option B 
    Option B is a variation of Option A to avoid the difficult intersection of South Street and 7th Street. 
    This alternative consists of installing a trail within the previously described privately owned parcel 
    situated west of South Street between the active Norfolk Southern railroad and 7th Street. A mid
    block crossing would be installed across 7th Street and cyclists would then transition to the bike lane 
    along 7th street, and then to sharrows on South Street. The rest of the route would be identical to 
    Option A. 
     
III. NEW CASTLE HERITAGE TRAIL 
    The New Castle Heritage Trail is an existing ¼mile trail segment between Delaware Street and 8th 
    Street that is part of the Industrial Track Trail network. DelDOT completed this section in 2005 under 
    the Transportation Enhancements program (Contract 2420011). Since that time, trail guidelines 
    have changed and the rest of the Industrial Track Trail is moving closer to completion. 
    For those reasons, elements of the existing trail were evaluated to ensure a consistent tiein with 
    other segments of the trail network. Elements evaluated include geometrics, pavement conditions, 
    drainage, ADA compliance, landscaping, lighting, and trail amenities. 
                                  




                                                                                                           6 
 
    Trail alignment 
    The trail is eight feet wide. The AASHTO Guide for the Development of Bicycle Facilities (4th Edition, 
    2012) recommends a minimum trail width of ten feet. It notes that in rare circumstances a reduced 
    width may be used, including when: 
        Bicycle traffic is expected to be low, even on peak days or during peak hours 
        Pedestrian use of the facility is not expected to be more than occasional 
        Horizontal and vertical alignments provide frequent, welldesigned passing and resting 
        opportunities. 
        The path will not be regularly subjected to maintenance vehicle loading conditions that would 
        cause pavement edge damage. 
    Once the Industrial Track Trail network is complete, user demand is expected to rise. Therefore the 
    above volumebased conditions will not likely apply. Furthermore, the rest of the Industrial Track 
    Trail is designed with a minimum width of ten feet. 
     
    Pavement conditions and drainage 
    The trail consists of a hotmix surface and field observations indicate the pavement is in fair 
    condition. In several areas, however, localized low points have developed and ponding was 
    observed. Standing water is a safety concern, especially during freezing weather conditions. The 
    trail's stormwater runoff is conveyed through a series of ditches and a closed storm drainage 
    system. Repairing the pavement low spots, regrading several minor side ditches towards the existing 
    storm drain system, and potentially installing new inlets would likely resolve these drainage 
    concerns. 
     
    Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliance 
    Trail cross slopes were field checked at 50foot increments. The maximum allowable cross slope is 
    2% per current standards. Cross slopes north of 9th Street were within the allowable tolerance. 
    Several locations between 8th Street and 9th Street exceeded 2%, with a maximum recorded slope of 
    4.7%. These sections were also where localized ponding was observed as noted above. 
    Curb ramp slopes were field checked. All existing curb ramps were built per plan. However, due to 
    changes in ADA and DelDOT guidelines since 2005, the curb ramps do not include landing areas as 
    currently required. Cross slopes and taper slopes all fall within current guidelines and all curb ramps 
    have detectable warning truncated domes. 
     
    Landscaping 
    WR&A landscape architecture staff performed a field view on March 29, 2013. Existing plantings 
    were quantified and evaluated for health and location relevant to existing and proposed trail 
    improvements. A landscaping evaluation plan is provided in Section 4 of this report. 
    Several of the plantings identified as proposed according Contract 2420011 no longer exist. The 
    existing canopy and understory trees that do remain appear to be in good health and provide a 
    buffer from Young Street as well as the existing properties that border the trail. The AASHTO Guide 

                                                                                                           7 
 
    for the Development of Bicycle Facilities (4th edition, 2012) recommends a twofoot horizontal 
    clearance between a trail and lateral obstructions such as bushes or trees. Several of the low shrubs 
    along the trail need to be considered for removal or transplantation due to their growth habits and 
    proximity to the trail. During the summer months, these plantings do not provide a sufficient 
    horizontal clearance for trail users. 
    Additionally, the Euonymus (burning bush) is an invasive species. Although the Euonymus along the 
    Heritage Trail provide a buffer, they have outgrown their intended use and their removal should be 
    considered. Smaller species such as the Ilex verticillata (Winterberry) can remain if the trail width 
    and alignment stays in place. If the trail is widened, further evaluation is needed per individual 
    plants to determine if transplanting or removing the species is required.  
     
    Lighting 
    Twelve light fixtures were installed as part of Contract 2420011. Lighting measurements were 
    recorded the evening of January 17, 2013. Light levels were high in the immediate vicinity of each 
    fixture, however dark spots were recorded at locations midway between each fixture. Photometric 
    software was used to model existing and potential proposed light levels. DelDOT's Lighting Design 
    Guidelines recommend an average maintained illuminance value of 2.0 footcandles (FC) minimum 
    on separated pedestrian ways and bicycle ways. The existing average illuminance on the Heritage 
    Trail is 1.5 FC. 
    To upgrade lighting to meet current standards, nine new light fixtures are recommended 
    approximately midway between each existing fixture. Also, the existing light fixture heads should be 
    replaced with fixtures specified with a light distribution pattern of Type II or III. This pattern is 
    suitable for trails because it distributes light in a wider, more lateral pattern, rather than the near 
    circular pattern observed, which is consistent with a Type IV or V pattern. 
     
    Trail Amenities 
    The kiosks installed as part of Contract 2420011 are no longer in place. The bicycle racks installed 
    are of the "wave" design; however DelDOT's current preferred design is the inverted "U". Also, 
    bollards were installed, but have since been cut and only stubs remain.  
     
IV. PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT 
    A public workshop was held on Thursday, May 23, 2013 at the New Castle Public Library. Display 
    boards were presented for attendees to review trail alignment alternatives. There were twelve 
    attendees at the workshop and all strongly supported the project. Of the four surveys completed, 
    the following is a tally of the preferred alignment. Of note, some attendees selected more than one 
    alignment, indicating a favorable opinion towards multiple alignments. 
        4 votes  Green Alignment: Alignment through former BrosiusEliason property if/when it is 
        redeveloped. 
        1 vote  Blue alignment: alignment into downtown consisting of an onstreet option for bicyclists 
        and sidewalk upgrades for pedestrians 
        1 vote  Red Alignment: Alignment along South Street consisting of an onstreet option for 
        bicyclists and sidewalk upgrades for pedestrians. 

                                                                                                            8 
 
    Copies of the materials presented at the workshop and a summary of comments are included in 
    Appendix D. 
 
V. ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES 
    Natural Resources 
    On January 31, 2013, an initial site visit was conducted by WR&A environmental staff to identify 
    environmental features that may require permitting as a result of potential trail impacts. During this 
    site visit, two potential wetland areas were identified. See Section 7 of this report for a site location 
    map and technical documentation. 
    Wetland 1 is located directly adjacent to the existing New Castle Heritage Trail between Delaware 
    Street and 9th Street. The wetland appears to have been formed within a ditch that developed 
    wetland characteristics due to a lack of periodic maintenance. The ditch was constructed within 
    uplands and therefore the ditch and wetlands are not naturally occurring. 
    A followup site visit was conducted on May 16, 2013 with DelDOT Environmental Studies staff. The 
    group observed the area around Wetland 1, including the upstream portion north of the culvert 
    crossing at Delaware Street. The group agreed that it is likely the wetland and ditch would not be 
    regulated because they lack a significant nexus to regulated Waters of the United States. A 
    Jurisdictional Determination with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has not been scheduled to 
    confirm because it was noted that potential upgrades or modifications to the New Castle Heritage 
    Trail, including resurfacing and/or widening the trail by an additional two feet, could be 
    accomplished without impacting the wetland or ditch. No future action for Wetland 1 is necessary 
    unless potential improvements to the Heritage Trail extend into the wetland area. 
    Wetland 2 is located within Battery Park and southwest of the former BrosiusEliason industrial site. 
    It appears that a small portion of the wetland extends into the industrial site where the topography 
    remains flat and ponding is occurring. Access to the industrial site is restricted by a chainlink fence 
    around the parcel's perimeter.  
    At the followup site visit on May 16, 2013, the group agreed that based on the visual observance of 
    hydrophytic vegetation, the wetland likely extends into the fenced area. It was suggested that an 
    insufficient amount of fill was placed when the site was graded and the wetlands continue to 
    encroach. Full access to the site and a delineation of Wetland 2 would be required before a potential 
    proposed trail alignment can be determined. The group agreed that this wetland would likely be 
    regulated due to its close proximity and significant nexus to the Delaware River; however a 
    Jurisdictional Determination with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers must be conducted to confirm. 
     
    Cultural Resources 
    WR&A reviewed the trail alignments with DelDOT Environmental Studies on March 7, 2013. 
    Concerns with standing structures were not noted. Archaeology studies are anticipated for the red 
    and green alignments. Although archaeological resources are unlikely to impact the feasibility of any 
    alternative, further evaluation of the trail project will be required at the final design stage. 
     
                                  


                                                                                                            9 
 
    Hazardous Materials 
    Before BrosiusEliason occupied the site at 508 South Street, the New Castle Gas Company was 
    situated at this location. This site has been certified as a brownfield by DNREC's Site Investigation 
    and Restoration (SIRS) division (Project No. DE0167). DNREC has indicated that a remedial 
    investigation at the site is complete and a Final Plan of Remedial Action was issued in February 2013. 
    The red and blue alignments are not associated with the defined SIRS site. 
     
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS 
    All alignment options accomplish the goals of the project and effectively complete the southern
    most section of the Industrial Track Trail. Due to the relatively shortterm implementation 
    timeframe, it is recommended to move forward with both the Blue Alignment and Red Alignment, 
    Option A. These options offer low cost alternatives that utilize much of the existing pedestrian 
    network. When combined, they would allow trail users to navigate to and from various destinations 
    throughout the City from multiple access points. 
    In the long term, it is recommended to continue development coordination for implementation of 
    the Green alignment trail when the BrosiusEliason site is redeveloped. This alignment was the 
    chosen alternative at the public workshop. Depending on the final alignment, it could offer scenic 
    views of the wetland ecosystem surrounding Battery Park. This option would provide an excellent 
    opportunity to create a multimodal asset within this revitalized section of New Castle. 
    The Green option as shown is dependent on the use of the privately owned parcel between the 
    Norfolk Southern railroad and 7th Street. As the BrosiusEliason redevelopment continues, this parcel 
    should be reevaluated for potential trail use. If use of this parcel is found to be infeasible, the Green 
    alignment could be implemented by using the Red Alignment, Option A and then transitioning to 
    inside the BrosiusEliason site just south of the 7th Street and South Street intersection. 
    Red Alignment, Option B is not recommended because although it would avoid the difficult 
    intersection at 7th Street and South Street, it also hinges on the use of the privately owned parcel 
    between the Norfolk Southern railroad and 7th Street. If this parcel becomes available for trail use, 
    then all efforts should be directed towards the more desirable Green alignment instead. 
    Due to its relatively recent construction, it is generally agreed that the New Castle Heritage Trail is in 
    fair condition. The overall Industrial Track Trail network is slated to be either built or under 
    construction by 2016. To ensure consistent signage, light fixtures, and other amenities, it is 
    recommended to wait to upgrade the Heritage Trail to build on the success of other higher profile 
    segments of the network. By deferring upgrades, a larger group of stakeholders will have an 
    opportunity to come to a consensus on overall network aesthetics and amenities. 
     
                                  




                                                                                                            10 
 
VII. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND COST ESTIMATES 
    The following scope of work is recommended for each project. Note assumptions of work by others. 
     
    Blue and Red Alignments 
    Approximate Cost: $355,000 
        Work with the Historic New Castle Alliance and the City of New Castle to implement wayfinding 
        signage along both routes directing trail users to both downtown (via the existing City streets) 
        and Battery Park (via South Street). 
        Install sharrows along both routes. Develop a contraflow signing and striping sketch plan for the 
        oneway section along 5th Street. 
        Evaluate the feasibility of installing a halfsignal or fourway STOP at the 7th Street and South 
        Street intersection. 
        Complete the sidewalk network on 7th Street between South Street and Deemer Place. If 
        sidewalk is found to be undesirable at this location during final design, pedestrians should be 
        directed to the existing sidewalk network on 6th Street or 5th Street instead. 
        Fix the sidewalk gap between the southern end of the Heritage Trail at the corner of 8th Street 
        and Young Street/ South Street to just south of the Norfolk Southern railroad. 
        Widen the existing fourfootwide sidewalk to five feet on the east side of South Street from 
        approximately 30 feet south of the railroad to 7th Street. 
        Continue coordination with the City of New Castle to ensure the City's revitalization plans for 
        Battery Park include a trail connection between 3rd Street and the Battery Park trail. It is 
        assumed that design and construction of that section will be performed by others. 
 
    Green Alignment 
    Approximate Cost: $130,000 
        Construct a hotmix trail between 8th Street and 7th Street. Remove any remaining remnants of 
        the railroad infrastructure and excess hotmix pavement. 
        When the former BrosiusEliason site is redeveloped, include plans for a trail within the site 
        between 7th Street and 3rd Street. It is assumed that trail design and construction within the 
        BrosiusEliason site will be performed by others. 
        Install signing and striping for a midblock crossing at 7th Street. Evaluate the feasibility of 
        installing additional traffic calming, active, or enhanced measures if warranted. 
        Install landscaping improvements. 
        Continue coordination with the City of New Castle to ensure the City's revitalization plans for 
        Battery Park include a trail connection between 3rd Street and the Battery Park trail. It is 
        assumed that design and construction of that section will be performed by others. 
 
                                   


                                                                                                           11 
 
    Heritage Trail 
    Approximate Cost: $360,000 
        Widen the trail to ten feet. Resurface and/or patch the pavement as conditions dictate. 
        Upgrade curb ramps to current guidelines. 
        Evaluate drainage and install additional inlets or regrade as needed. 
        Install additional light poles and change fixture types on the existing light poles to a Type II or III 
        distribution for optimized lighting. 
        Provide additional landscaping and remove undesirable landscaping features. 
 




                                                                                                              12 
 
        Tab 2 
     
                                              D
                                                ee
                                                   m




                                                                e
                                                     er




                                                             ac
                                                          Pl
                                                                                                           New Castle
                                                                                                          Public Library




                                                                              y
                                                                         l le




                                                                                                      Fo
                                                                        A




                                                                                                         un
                                                                         e
                                                                      us




                                                                                                            dr
                                                                    ho




                                                                                                               y
                                                                                                              St
                                                                  re




                                                                                                                 re
                                                                Fi




                                                                                                                    et
                                                                                  W
                                                                                   ill
                                                                                       ia
                                                                                          m
                                                                                            s
                                                                                           St
                                                                                              re
                                                                                                 et
                                Wetlands
                              (approximate)
Legend:
          Red Alternative
          Green Alternative
          Blue Alternative




                                                                                                                           from 2012.


                                                                                                                                        MAY 2013
        Tab 3 
     
Public Involvement 
 
A public workshop was held on Thursday, May 23, 2013 at the New Castle Public Library. Display 
boards  were  presented  for  attendees  to  review  trail  alignment  alternatives.  There  were  twelve 
attendees  at  the  workshop  and  all  strongly  supported  the  project.  Of  the  four  surveys 
completed, the following is a tally of the preferred alignment.  Of note, some attendees selected 
more than one alignment, indicating a favorable opinion towards multiple alignments. 
 
     4  votes   Green  Alignment:  Alignment  through  former  BrosiusEliason  property  if/when 
        it is redeveloped. 
 
     1  vote   Blue  alignment:  alignment  into  downtown  consisting  of  an  onstreet  option  for 
         bicyclists and sidewalk upgrades for pedestrians 
 
     1  vote   Red  Alignment:  Alignment  along  South  Street  consisting  of  an  onstreet  option 
        for bicyclists and sidewalk upgrades for pedestrians. 
  
Copies of the materials presented at the workshop and a summary of comments are attached. 
 
        Tab 4 
     
Heritage Trail Landscaping Evaluation 
 
WR&A landscape architecture staff performed a field view on March 29, 2013. Existing plantings 
were  quantified  and  evaluated  for  health  and  location  relevant  to  existing  and  proposed  trail 
improvements. A landscaping evaluation plan follows this description. 
 
Several  of  the  plantings  identified  as  proposed  according  Contract  2420011  no  longer  exist. 
The  existing  canopy  and  understory  trees  that  do  remain  appear  to  be  in  good  health  and 
provide  a  buffer  from  Young  Street  as  well  as  the  existing  properties  that  border  the  trail.  The 
AASHTO  Guide  for  the  Development  of  Bicycle  Facilities  (4th  edition,  2012)  recommends  a  two
foot  horizontal  clearance  between  a  trail  and  lateral  obstructions  such  as  bushes  or  trees. 
Several  of  the  low  shrubs  along  the  trail  need  to  be  considered  for  removal  or  transplantation 
due  to  their  growth  habits  and  proximity  to  the  trail.  During  the  summer  months,  these 
plantings do not provide a sufficient horizontal clearance for trail users. 
 
Additionally,  the  Euonymus  (burning  bush)  is  an  invasive  species.  Although  the  Euonymus  along 
the  Heritage  Trail  provide  a  buffer,  they  have  outgrown  their  intended  use  and  their  removal 
should be considered. Smaller species such as the Ilex verticillata (Winterberry) can remain if the 
trail  width  and  alignment  stays  in  place.  If  the  trail  is  widened,  further  evaluation  is  needed  per 
individual plants to determine if transplanting or removing the species is required.  
        Tab 5 
     
                                      New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




            Photo 1: Facing south at end of Heritage Trail




          Photo 2: Facing north at Norfolk Southern Railroad

1 of 16
                                                 New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




          Photo 3: Red Alignment - South Street, between 7th Street and 8th Street




          Photo 4: Red Alignment - South Street, between 7th Street and 8th Street


2 of 16
                                       New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




          Photo 5: Red Alignment - South Street at 7th Street




          Photo 6: Red Alignment - South Street at 6th Street


3 of 16
                                                 New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




          Photo 7: Red Alignment - South Street, between 6th Street and 7th Street




                                                           th             th
          Photo 8: Red Alignment - South Street, between 6 Street and 7 Street


4 of 16
                                                 New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




          Photo 9: Red Alignment - South Street, between 5th Street and 6th Street




                    Photo 10: Red Alignment - South Street at 5th Street


5 of 16
                                             New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




                Photo 11: Red Alignment - South Street at 5th Street




          Photo 12: Red Alignment - South Street at Goodwill Fire Company


6 of 16
                                       New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




          Photo 13: Red Alignment - South Street at 4th Street




          Photo 14: Red Alignment - South Street at 3rd Street


7 of 16
                                                 New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




                         Photo 15: Red Alignment ­ Battery Park




          Photo 16: Green Alignment - Former railroad, facing north at 7th Street

8 of 16
                                                     New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




          Photo 17: Green Alignment - Former railroad crossing at 7th Street, facing north




          Photo 18: Green Alignment - Former railroad crossing at 7th Street, facing south


9 of 16
                                                      New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




           Photo 19: Green Alignment - Former railroad crossing at 7th Street, facing south




                      Photo 20: Green Alignment - Former Brosius-Eliason site


10 of 16
                                          New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




           Photo 21: Green Alignment - Former Brosius-Eliason site




                 Photo 22: Green Alignment ­ Battery Park


11 of 16
                                                       New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




                        Photo 23: Blue Alignment ­ 7th Street at Clayton Street




           Photo 24: Blue Alignment ­ 7th Street, between Clayton Street and Tremont Street


12 of 16
                                                    New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




           Photo 25: Blue Alignment ­Tremont Street, between 6th Street and 5th Street




                     Photo 26: Blue Alignment ­ 5th Street at Tremont Street


13 of 16
                                          New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




           Photo 27: Blue Alignment - 5th Street at Foundry Street




           Photo 28: Blue Alignment - Foundry Street, facing south


14 of 16
                                New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




           Photo 29: New Castle Heritage Trail




           Photo 30: New Castle Heritage Trail


15 of 16
                                New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4




           Photo 31: New Castle Heritage Trail




           Photo 32: New Castle Heritage Trail


16 of 16
        Tab 6 
     
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                     SECTION 6A 
    CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM COST ESTIMATE 
              RED AND BLUE ALIGNMENTS 
                 
                         CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE


1. NAME OF PROJECT Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Blue and Red Alignments                                               New Castle
                                 Subdivision or Road Name                                                                       County
2. LIMITS
   Street Name or Road Number                  From                                                 To                      Length

South Street                                     8th Street                            3rd Street                         1,850 feet

W. 7th Street                                    South Street                          Deemer Place                       700 feet

Various roadways within New Castle               8th Street & South Street             Delaware St & 3rd St               2,600 feet




3. ESTIMATE REQUESTED BY:   Marco Boyce                                    for (check one)          Project initiation
                               Name                                                                 Estimate only         Section or Legis. Dist.
4. DESCRIPTION OF IMPROVEMENT:
This project proposes to complete the southern portion of the Industrial Track Trail via a series of multi-modal upgrades within
the City of New Castle's existing street network. Sidewalk improvements will be performed on 7th Street and South Street. The
intersection of 7th Street and South Street will receive bicycle and pedestrian upgrades. Signing and striping upgrades will be
provided on South Street, 7th Street, Tremont Street, 5th Street, Delaware Street, and Foundry Street. See Concept Report for
maps of the Blue and Red alignments.



4. PROJECT IN C.I.P.                     Yes        No                                 If "Yes", indicate year    F.Y.
5. TYPICAL SECTION
South Street is a two-lane street with 11-foot travel lanes and a 11-foot shoulder on the east side. 7th Street is a two-lane street
with parking. The proposed sidewalk will be 5 feet wide and will be aligned on the east side of South Street between 8th Street
and 7th Street, and on the south side of 7th Street between South Street and Deemer Place.



6. STATE MAINTAINED                      CITY MAINTAINED                    PRIVATE            OTHER          (specify)
7. COST ESTIMATE:                                                          from C.I.P.         Estimate prepared                    Date:
                                                                           estimate form       by:

a. Location and Environmental Studies                                $0       Part I           WR&A                                    10/03/13
(Part I to be included only for class "I" and "III" projects)

b. Preliminary Engineering                                       $88,000      Part II          WR&A                                    10/03/13

c. Real Estate                                                       $0       Part III         WR&A                                    10/03/13

d. Construction *                                               $266,090      Part IV          WR&A                                    10/03/13

e. TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                          $354,090
* Includes Utilities, Traffic, and C.E.
APPROVED
Valid thru
                Date                    Assistant Director, M&O/Transportation Solutions/Planning                                      Date


  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                             Last Modified: 11/27/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                           (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                      Part I of V

Contract No. T201330007                                    Project Title: Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Blue and Red Alignments

                              PART I - LOCATION & ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES (N/A)
                                  (Part I to be included only for class "I" & "III" projects)

A. ENGINEERING                                                           E. HISTORIC                                               $0
   (Includes NEPA)
B. ARCHAEOLOGY                                        $0                    1. Phase 1 (study)

   1. Phase I (study)                                                       2. Phase 2 (study)

   2. Phase 2 (study)                                                       3. Mitigation (by loc./env.)

   3. Phase 3 (mitigation)                                                  4. Mitigation (by design)                 yes     no

C. WETLANDS                                           $0                 F. NOISE                                                  $0

   1. Delineation (study)                                                   1. Studies

   2. Permit preparation                                                    2. Mitigation (by design)                 yes     no

   3. Mitigation (design)                                                G. OTHER                                                  $0

D. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL                                 $0                          1.

   1. Phase 1 (study)                                                             2.

   2. Phase 2 (study)

   3. Phase 3 (remediation)



TOTAL COSTS FOR PART I (A thru G) ROUNDED                                                                                          $0

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                                  $0
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)               (% used)

TOTAL LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES COSTS                                                                                     $0
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7a)


Estimator:    WR&A                                                             Date: 10/03/13




 Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                              (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                             Part II of V

Contract No. T201330007                                     Project Title: Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Blue and Red Alignments

                                              PART II - PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING

A. SURVEYS                                     $15,000                       8. Subdivision                                           $0
                                                                               a. Inhouse
   1. Inhouse                                                                  b. Consultant
   2. Consultant                               $15,000                         c. Railroad P.E.

B. DESIGN ENGINEERING                          $65,000                       9. Other (specify)                                       $0
                                                                                  a.
   1. Design                                   $65,000                             b.
     a. Inhouse
     b. Consultant                             $65,000                    C. ENVIRON. ASSESSMENT                                      $0
                                                                          (use for class "II" projects only)
   2. Traffic                                          $0
     a. Inhouse                                                              1.   Wetlands
     b. Consultant                                     $0                    2.   Hazardous Materials
                                                                             3.   Noise
   3. Real Estate Plan Preparation                     $0                    4.   Historic
     a. Inhouse                                                              5.   Archaeology
     b. Consultant                                                           6.   Other
                                                                                     a.
   4. Utilities                                        $0                            b.
     a. Inhouse
     b. Consultant                                                        Loc/Environ
     c. Test Holes                                                        Estimator:                                 Date:
     d. Utility Company
                                                                          D. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
   5. Materials & Research
                                                                          Cont/Admin
   6. Borings                                                             Estimator:                                 Date:

   7. Pile Load Tests



TOTAL COSTS FOR PART II (A thru D) ROUNDED                                                                                      $80,000

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                10%              $8,000
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)                   (% used)

TOTAL PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING                                                                                                   $88,000
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7b)


Estimator:      WR&A                                                              Date: 10/03/13




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                           Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                            (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                     Part III of V

Contract No. T201330007                                     Project Title: Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Blue and Red Alignments

                                                  PART III - REAL ESTATE

A. REAL PROPERTY                                       $0                 C. ASBESTOS PROGRAM                                        $0

   1. Total acquisitions                                                        1. Testing

   2. Partial acquisitions                                                      2. Abatement

   3. Permanent easements                                                 D. DEMOLITION

   4. Temporary easements                                                 E. APPRAISAL FEES

   5. Wetland mitigation                                                  F. STAFF
   Other (specify)
   6.                                                                     G. SETTLEMENT

   7.                                                                     H. REAL ESTATE ENG.                                        $0

B. RELOCATION                                          $0                       1. Consultant survey

   1. Residential                                                               2. As acquired plans

   2. Business                                                            I. CONDEMNATION
   Other (specify)
   3.                                                                     J. OTHER (specify)                                         $0

   4.                                                                           1.

                                                                                2.




TOTAL COSTS FOR PART III (A thru J) ROUNDED                                                                                          $0

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                                    $0
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)            (% used)

TOTAL REAL ESTATE COSTS                                                                                                              $0
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7c)


Estimator:    WR&A                                                         Date: 10/03/13




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                             (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                      Part IV-A of V

Contract No. T201330007                                          Project Title Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Blue and Red Alignments

                                                  PART IV -CONSTRUCTION

A. ROADWAY/APPROACH                                                          B. STRUCTURE
   CONSTRUCTION                                        $45,600                  CONSTRUCTION                                       $0
   1. Grading
     a. Excavation                                      $2,000                   1. New Bridge
      (includes SWM pond)
     b. Borrow                                           $500                     a. Type

   2. Drainage                                             $0                     b. Size

   3. Pavement                                                                    c. $/s.f.
     a. Surface                                          $500
                                                                                 2. Old Structure Rem.
    b. Base                                              $600
                                                                                  a. Type
    c. Subbase                                          $3,000
                                                                                  b. Size
   4. Erosion/Sed. Cont.                                $3,000
                                                                                  c. $/c.y.
   5. Miscellaneous
     a. Curb/Gutter                                     $3,500                   3. Retaining Wall

    b. Sidewalk                                        $22,000                    a. Type

    c. Guardrail                                           $0                     b. Size

    d. C.P.M. Schedule                                     $0                     c. $/c.y.

    e. Clear/Grubb                                      $5,000                   4. Box Culvert

    f. Field Office                                        $0                     a. Type
   Other (specify)
    g.        Topsoil, Seed, Mulch                      $1,500                    b. Size

    h.        Removal of concrete                       $4,000                    c. $/s.f.

    i.                                                                       C. LANDSCAPING                                            $0

    j.                                                                           1. Beautification

    k.                                                                           2. Noise Mitigation

    l.                                                                           3. Visual Mitigation

    m.                                                                           4. Tree Mitigation

                                                                             D. MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC                       $15,000
(refer to Capital Improvement Project form, Part IV - Continued)



  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                                (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                        Part IV-B of V

Contract No. T201330007                                          Project Title Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Blue and Red Alignments
                                             PART IV -CONSTRUCTION (CONTINUED)
E. PROJECT TRAFFIC ITEMS                               $8,000                 P. REIMBURSABLE UTILITY                               $0
                                                                              RELOCATIONS BY OTHERS
   1. Signing Structures                                                                  (Enter on PNR funding line 7)
     a. Overhead Bridges                                   $0                    1. Water

    b. Cantilever Supports                                 $0                       2. Sanitary Sewer

   2. Roadway Lighting                                     $0                       3. Electric

   3. Pavement Markings                                $8,000                       4. Telephone
   Other (specify)
   4.                                                                               5. Gas

F. WETLAND MITIGATION                                                               6. CATV
                                                                                    Other (specify)
G. UTILITY RELOC. IN CONTRACT                              $0                       7.

   1. Water                                                                         8.

   2. Sanitary Sewer                                                          Utilities
   Other (specify)                                                            Estimator:                        Date:
   3.
                                                                              Q. TRAFFIC SECTION ITEMS                       $155,000
H. SUBTOTAL (A thru G) ROUNDED                         $69,000                           (Enter on PNR funding line 6)
                                                                                1. Signing                                     $5,000
I. MISC. ITEMS                                         $13,800
(15% of H for large projects and 20% for small)                                     2. Signals                               $150,000
(At SF submission use 10% and 5%)
                                20%                                                 3. Detour Signing
                              (% used)
J. CONTRACTOR'S CONST. ENG.                             $3,450                      4. DelTrac
(normally 5% of H)               5%                                                 Other (specify)
                              (% used)                                              5.

K. INITIAL EXPENSE                                      $3,450                Traffic
(normally 5% of H)              5%                                            Estimator:                        Date:
                              (% used)

L. CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENCY           $6,900
(normally 10% of H)            10%
                             (% used)
M. TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS (H thru L)                                                                                         $96,600
(Enter on PNR funding line 5)
N. CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (normally 15% of construction costs)                                            15%                $14,490
(Enter on PNR funding line 4)                                                                             (% used)
O. TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS (Construction Costs + Construction Engineering)                                                  $111,090
(use this total + Q + P for Construction Project Estimate from line 7d)

Estimator:    WR&A                                                                       Date: 10/03/13

  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                       (Current Dollars)                                          Part V of V

Contract No. T201330007                                       Project Title: Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Blue and Red Alignments

                                                        SUMMARY


PART I - LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES                                                                                       $0
(Part I to be included only for class "I" and "III" projects)


PART II - PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING                                                                                           $88,000


PART III - REAL ESTATE                                                                                                            $0


PART IV - CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                     $266,090


TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                                                                                              $354,090
(also total for Construction Project Estimate from line 7c)


                                                                                  Date:
                           Project Manager


REVIEWED & CONCURRED IN:


                                                                                  Date:
                           Section Head


NOTE: Concurring section heads are to forward the original estimate copy to the Director of Transportation Solutions with
one estimate copy each to the Assistant Director of Project Development, Assistant Director of Design Support, and the Cost
Estimate Engineer.




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                       SECTION 6B 
    CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM COST ESTIMATE 
                    GREEN ALIGNMENT 
                 
                         CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE


1. NAME OF PROJECT Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Green Alignment                                                      New Castle
                                 Subdivision or Road Name                                                                      County
2. LIMITS
   Street Name or Road Number                  From                                                To                      Length

                                                 8th Street & South
Off-alignment trail                              Street                               7th Street                         450 feet




3. ESTIMATE REQUESTED BY:   Marco Boyce                                   for (check one)          Project initiation
                               Name                                                                Estimate only         Section or Legis. Dist.
4. DESCRIPTION OF IMPROVEMENT:
This project proposes to complete the southern portion of the Industrial Track Trail via an off-alignment trail through a future re-
developed industrial site within the City of New Castle. A trail will begin at the southern end of the Heritage Trail and continue to
7th Street. A mid-block crossing with be installed at 7th Street. This estimate does NOT include the trail south of 7th Street,
which would be built by the developer of the property.




4. PROJECT IN C.I.P.                     Yes        No                                If "Yes", indicate year    F.Y.
5. TYPICAL SECTION
The proposed trail will be 10 feet wide and consist of a hot-mix surface.




6. STATE MAINTAINED                      CITY MAINTAINED                   PRIVATE             OTHER         (specify)
7. COST ESTIMATE:                                                         from C.I.P.          Estimate prepared                   Date:
                                                                          estimate form        by:

a. Location and Environmental Studies                               $0       Part I            WR&A                                   10/03/13
(Part I to be included only for class "I" and "III" projects)

b. Preliminary Engineering                                      $33,000      Part II           WR&A                                   10/03/13

c. Real Estate                                                      $0       Part III          WR&A                                   10/03/13

d. Construction *                                               $96,770      Part IV           WR&A                                   10/03/13

e. TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                          $129,770
* Includes Utilities, Traffic, and C.E.
APPROVED
Valid thru
                Date                    Assistant Director, M&O/Transportation Solutions/Planning                                     Date

  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                            Last Modified: 11/27/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                           (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                      Part I of V

Contract No. T201330007                                    Project Title: Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Green Alignment

                              PART I - LOCATION & ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES (N/A)
                                  (Part I to be included only for class "I" & "III" projects)

A. ENGINEERING                                                           E. HISTORIC                                               $0
   (Includes NEPA)
B. ARCHAEOLOGY                                        $0                    1. Phase 1 (study)

   1. Phase I (study)                                                       2. Phase 2 (study)

   2. Phase 2 (study)                                                       3. Mitigation (by loc./env.)

   3. Phase 3 (mitigation)                                                  4. Mitigation (by design)                 yes     no

C. WETLANDS                                           $0                 F. NOISE                                                  $0

   1. Delineation (study)                                                   1. Studies

   2. Permit preparation                                                    2. Mitigation (by design)                 yes     no

   3. Mitigation (design)                                                G. OTHER                                                  $0

D. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL                                 $0                          1.

   1. Phase 1 (study)                                                             2.

   2. Phase 2 (study)

   3. Phase 3 (remediation)



TOTAL COSTS FOR PART I (A thru G) ROUNDED                                                                                          $0

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                                  $0
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)               (% used)

TOTAL LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES COSTS                                                                                     $0
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7a)


Estimator:    WR&A                                                             Date: 10/03/13




 Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                              (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                             Part II of V

Contract No. T201330007                                     Project Title: Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Green Alignment

                                              PART II - PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING

A. SURVEYS                                     $10,000                       8. Subdivision                                           $0
                                                                               a. Inhouse
   1. Inhouse                                                                  b. Consultant
   2. Consultant                               $10,000                         c. Railroad P.E.

B. DESIGN ENGINEERING                          $20,000                       9. Other (specify)                                       $0
                                                                                  a.
   1. Design                                   $20,000                             b.
     a. Inhouse
     b. Consultant                             $20,000                    C. ENVIRON. ASSESSMENT                                      $0
                                                                          (use for class "II" projects only)
   2. Traffic                                          $0
     a. Inhouse                                                              1.   Wetlands
     b. Consultant                                     $0                    2.   Hazardous Materials
                                                                             3.   Noise
   3. Real Estate Plan Preparation                     $0                    4.   Historic
     a. Inhouse                                                              5.   Archaeology
     b. Consultant                                                           6.   Other
                                                                                     a.
   4. Utilities                                        $0                            b.
     a. Inhouse
     b. Consultant                                                        Loc/Environ
     c. Test Holes                                                        Estimator:                                 Date:
     d. Utility Company
                                                                          D. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
   5. Materials & Research
                                                                          Cont/Admin
   6. Borings                                                             Estimator:                                 Date:

   7. Pile Load Tests



TOTAL COSTS FOR PART II (A thru D) ROUNDED                                                                                      $30,000

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                10%              $3,000
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)                   (% used)

TOTAL PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING                                                                                                   $33,000
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7b)


Estimator:      WR&A                                                              Date: 10/03/13




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                           Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                            (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                     Part III of V

Contract No. T201330007                                     Project Title: Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Green Alignment

                                                  PART III - REAL ESTATE

A. REAL PROPERTY                                       $0                 C. ASBESTOS PROGRAM                                        $0

   1. Total acquisitions                                                        1. Testing

   2. Partial acquisitions                                                      2. Abatement

   3. Permanent easements                                                 D. DEMOLITION

   4. Temporary easements                                                 E. APPRAISAL FEES

   5. Wetland mitigation                                                  F. STAFF
   Other (specify)
   6.                                                                     G. SETTLEMENT

   7.                                                                     H. REAL ESTATE ENG.                                        $0

B. RELOCATION                                          $0                       1. Consultant survey

   1. Residential                                                               2. As acquired plans

   2. Business                                                            I. CONDEMNATION
   Other (specify)
   3.                                                                     J. OTHER (specify)                                         $0

   4.                                                                           1.

                                                                                2.




TOTAL COSTS FOR PART III (A thru J) ROUNDED                                                                                          $0

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                                    $0
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)            (% used)

TOTAL REAL ESTATE COSTS                                                                                                              $0
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7c)


Estimator:    WR&A                                                         Date: 10/03/13




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                             (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                       Part IV-A of V

Contract No. T201330007                                          Project Title Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Green Alignment

                                                  PART IV -CONSTRUCTION

A. ROADWAY/APPROACH                                                           B. STRUCTURE
   CONSTRUCTION                                        $39,500                   CONSTRUCTION                                        $0
   1. Grading
     a. Excavation                                      $7,500                   1. New Bridge
      (includes SWM pond)
     b. Borrow                                          $6,500                     a. Type

   2. Drainage                                             $0                      b. Size

   3. Pavement                                                                     c. $/s.f.
     a. Surface                                         $4,000
                                                                                 2. Old Structure Rem.
    b. Base                                              $500
                                                                                   a. Type
    c. Subbase                                          $3,500
                                                                                   b. Size
   4. Erosion/Sed. Cont.                                $2,000
                                                                                   c. $/c.y.
   5. Miscellaneous
     a. Curb/Gutter                                     $3,000                   3. Retaining Wall

    b. Sidewalk                                         $1,500                     a. Type

    c. Guardrail                                           $0                      b. Size

    d. C.P.M. Schedule                                     $0                      c. $/c.y.

    e. Clear/Grubb                                      $5,000                   4. Box Culvert

    f. Field Office                                        $0                      a. Type
   Other (specify)
    g.        Topsoil, Seed, Mulch                      $5,000                     b. Size

    h.        Removal of concrete                       $1,000                     c. $/s.f.

    i.                                                                        C. LANDSCAPING                                      $5,000

    j.                                                                           1. Beautification                                $5,000

    k.                                                                           2. Noise Mitigation

    l.                                                                           3. Visual Mitigation

    m.                                                                           4. Tree Mitigation

                                                                              D. MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC                       $10,000
(refer to Capital Improvement Project form, Part IV - Continued)



  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                         Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                                (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                        Part IV-B of V

Contract No. T201330007                                          Project Title Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Green Alignment
                                             PART IV -CONSTRUCTION (CONTINUED)
E. PROJECT TRAFFIC ITEMS                               $2,000                 P. REIMBURSABLE UTILITY                               $0
                                                                              RELOCATIONS BY OTHERS
   1. Signing Structures                                                                  (Enter on PNR funding line 7)
     a. Overhead Bridges                                   $0                    1. Water

    b. Cantilever Supports                                 $0                       2. Sanitary Sewer

   2. Roadway Lighting                                     $0                       3. Electric

   3. Pavement Markings                                $2,000                       4. Telephone
   Other (specify)
   4.                                                                               5. Gas

F. WETLAND MITIGATION                                                               6. CATV
                                                                                    Other (specify)
G. UTILITY RELOC. IN CONTRACT                              $0                       7.

   1. Water                                                                         8.

   2. Sanitary Sewer                                                          Utilities
   Other (specify)                                                            Estimator:                        Date:
   3.
                                                                              Q. TRAFFIC SECTION ITEMS                         $5,000
H. SUBTOTAL (A thru G) ROUNDED                         $57,000                           (Enter on PNR funding line 6)
                                                                                1. Signing                                     $5,000
I. MISC. ITEMS                                         $11,400
(15% of H for large projects and 20% for small)                                     2. Signals
(At SF submission use 10% and 5%)
                                20%                                                 3. Detour Signing
                              (% used)
J. CONTRACTOR'S CONST. ENG.                             $2,850                      4. DelTrac
(normally 5% of H)               5%                                                 Other (specify)
                              (% used)                                              5.

K. INITIAL EXPENSE                                      $2,850                Traffic
(normally 5% of H)              5%                                            Estimator:                        Date:
                              (% used)

L. CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENCY           $5,700
(normally 10% of H)            10%
                             (% used)
M. TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS (H thru L)                                                                                         $79,800
(Enter on PNR funding line 5)
N. CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (normally 15% of construction costs)                                            15%                $11,970
(Enter on PNR funding line 4)                                                                             (% used)
O. TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS (Construction Costs + Construction Engineering)                                                    $91,770
(use this total + Q + P for Construction Project Estimate from line 7d)

Estimator:    WR&A                                                                       Date: 10/03/13

  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                         Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                       (Current Dollars)                                          Part V of V

Contract No. T201330007                                       Project Title: Industrial Track Trail, Phase 4, Green Alignment

                                                        SUMMARY


PART I - LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES                                                                                       $0
(Part I to be included only for class "I" and "III" projects)


PART II - PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING                                                                                           $33,000


PART III - REAL ESTATE                                                                                                            $0


PART IV - CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                      $96,770


TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                                                                                              $129,770
(also total for Construction Project Estimate from line 7c)


                                                                                  Date:
                           Project Manager


REVIEWED & CONCURRED IN:


                                                                                  Date:
                           Section Head


NOTE: Concurring section heads are to forward the original estimate copy to the Director of Transportation Solutions with
one estimate copy each to the Assistant Director of Project Development, Assistant Director of Design Support, and the Cost
Estimate Engineer.




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                 SECTION 6C 
CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM COST ESTIMATE 
        HERITAGE TRAIL IMPROVEMENTS 
                       
                         CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE


1. NAME OF PROJECT Heritage Trail Improvements                                                                            New Castle
                                Subdivision or Road Name                                                                        County
2. LIMITS
   Street Name or Road Number                From                                                   To                      Length

South Street                                     Delaware Street                       8th Street                         1,000 feet




3. ESTIMATE REQUESTED BY:   Marco Boyce                                    for (check one)          Project initiation
                               Name                                                                 Estimate only         Section or Legis. Dist.
4. DESCRIPTION OF IMPROVEMENT:
This project proposes to construct improvements along the existing Heritage Trail. The trail will be widened to 10 feet and
resurfaced. Curb ramps will be reconstructed and drainage will be improved. Lighting and landscaping will be improved.




4. PROJECT IN C.I.P.                     Yes        No                                 If "Yes", indicate year    F.Y.
5. TYPICAL SECTION
The Heritage Trail is an 8-foot-wide hot-mix path that will be widened to 10 feet.




6. STATE MAINTAINED                      CITY MAINTAINED                    PRIVATE             OTHER         (specify)
7. COST ESTIMATE:                                                          from C.I.P.          Estimate prepared                   Date:
                                                                           estimate form        by:

a. Location and Environmental Studies                                $0       Part I            WR&A                                   10/03/13
(Part I to be included only for class "I" and "III" projects)

b. Preliminary Engineering                                       $66,000      Part II           WR&A                                   10/03/13

c. Real Estate                                                       $0       Part III          WR&A                                   10/03/13

d. Construction *                                               $293,190      Part IV           WR&A                                   10/03/13

e. TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                          $359,190
* Includes Utilities, Traffic, and C.E.
APPROVED
Valid thru
                Date                    Assistant Director, M&O/Transportation Solutions/Planning                                      Date


  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                             Last Modified: 11/27/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                           (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                     Part I of V

Contract No. T201330007                                    Project Title: Heritage Trail Improvements

                              PART I - LOCATION & ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES (N/A)
                                  (Part I to be included only for class "I" & "III" projects)

A. ENGINEERING                                                          E. HISTORIC                                               $0
   (Includes NEPA)
B. ARCHAEOLOGY                                        $0                   1. Phase 1 (study)

   1. Phase I (study)                                                      2. Phase 2 (study)

   2. Phase 2 (study)                                                      3. Mitigation (by loc./env.)

   3. Phase 3 (mitigation)                                                 4. Mitigation (by design)                 yes     no

C. WETLANDS                                           $0                F. NOISE                                                  $0

   1. Delineation (study)                                                  1. Studies

   2. Permit preparation                                                   2. Mitigation (by design)                 yes     no

   3. Mitigation (design)                                               G. OTHER                                                  $0

D. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL                                 $0                          1.

   1. Phase 1 (study)                                                             2.

   2. Phase 2 (study)

   3. Phase 3 (remediation)



TOTAL COSTS FOR PART I (A thru G) ROUNDED                                                                                         $0

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                                 $0
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)              (% used)

TOTAL LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES COSTS                                                                                    $0
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7a)


Estimator:    WR&A                                                             Date: 10/03/13




 Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                       Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                              (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                             Part II of V

Contract No. T201330007                                     Project Title: Heritage Trail Improvements

                                              PART II - PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING

A. SURVEYS                                     $15,000                       8. Subdivision                                           $0
                                                                               a. Inhouse
   1. Inhouse                                                                  b. Consultant
   2. Consultant                               $15,000                         c. Railroad P.E.

B. DESIGN ENGINEERING                          $45,000                       9. Other (specify)                                       $0
                                                                                  a.
   1. Design                                   $45,000                             b.
     a. Inhouse
     b. Consultant                             $45,000                    C. ENVIRON. ASSESSMENT                                      $0
                                                                          (use for class "II" projects only)
   2. Traffic                                          $0
     a. Inhouse                                                              1.   Wetlands
     b. Consultant                                                           2.   Hazardous Materials
                                                                             3.   Noise
   3. Real Estate Plan Preparation                     $0                    4.   Historic
     a. Inhouse                                                              5.   Archaeology
     b. Consultant                                                           6.   Other
                                                                                     a.
   4. Utilities                                        $0                            b.
     a. Inhouse
     b. Consultant                                                        Loc/Environ
     c. Test Holes                                                        Estimator:                                 Date:
     d. Utility Company
                                                                          D. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
   5. Materials & Research
                                                                          Cont/Admin
   6. Borings                                                             Estimator:                                 Date:

   7. Pile Load Tests



TOTAL COSTS FOR PART II (A thru D) ROUNDED                                                                                      $60,000

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                10%              $6,000
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)                   (% used)

TOTAL PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING                                                                                                   $66,000
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7b)


Estimator:      WR&A                                                              Date: 10/03/13




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                           Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                            (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                     Part III of V

Contract No. T201330007                                     Project Title: Heritage Trail Improvements

                                                  PART III - REAL ESTATE

A. REAL PROPERTY                                       $0                 C. ASBESTOS PROGRAM                                        $0

   1. Total acquisitions                                                        1. Testing

   2. Partial acquisitions                                                      2. Abatement

   3. Permanent easements                                                 D. DEMOLITION

   4. Temporary easements                                                 E. APPRAISAL FEES

   5. Wetland mitigation                                                  F. STAFF
   Other (specify)
   6.                                                                     G. SETTLEMENT

   7.                                                                     H. REAL ESTATE ENG.                                        $0

B. RELOCATION                                          $0                       1. Consultant survey

   1. Residential                                                               2. As acquired plans

   2. Business                                                            I. CONDEMNATION
   Other (specify)
   3.                                                                     J. OTHER (specify)                                         $0

   4.                                                                           1.

                                                                                2.




TOTAL COSTS FOR PART III (A thru J) ROUNDED                                                                                          $0

CONTINGENCY COSTS                                                                                                                    $0
(normally 5% for large projects and 10% for small projects - to be approved by section head)             (% used)

TOTAL REAL ESTATE COSTS                                                                                                              $0
(also total for Construction Project Estimate form line 7c)


Estimator:    WR&A                                                         Date: 10/03/13




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                        Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                             (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                       Part IV-A of V

Contract No. T201330007                                          Project Title Heritage Trail Improvements

                                                  PART IV -CONSTRUCTION

A. ROADWAY/APPROACH                                                          B. STRUCTURE
   CONSTRUCTION                                        $77,000                  CONSTRUCTION                                        $0
   1. Grading
     a. Excavation                                      $5,000                   1. New Bridge
      (includes SWM pond)
     b. Borrow                                           $500                     a. Type

   2. Drainage                                         $20,000                    b. Size

   3. Pavement                                                                    c. $/s.f.
     a. Surface                                        $12,000
                                                                                 2. Old Structure Rem.
    b. Base                                              $500
                                                                                  a. Type
    c. Subbase                                         $11,000
                                                                                  b. Size
   4. Erosion/Sed. Cont.                                $7,000
                                                                                  c. $/c.y.
   5. Miscellaneous
     a. Curb/Gutter                                     $2,500                   3. Retaining Wall

    b. Sidewalk                                         $1,500                    a. Type

    c. Guardrail                                           $0                     b. Size

    d. C.P.M. Schedule                                     $0                     c. $/c.y.

    e. Clear/Grubb                                     $10,000                   4. Box Culvert

    f. Field Office                                        $0                     a. Type
   Other (specify)
    g.        Topsoil, Seed, Mulch                      $3,500                    b. Size

    h.        Removal of concrete                       $1,000                    c. $/s.f.

    i.        Trail Amenities                           $2,500               C. LANDSCAPING                                     $5,000

    j.                                                                           1. Beautification                              $5,000

    k.                                                                           2. Noise Mitigation

    l.                                                                           3. Visual Mitigation

    m.                                                                           4. Tree Mitigation

                                                                             D. MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC                         $7,500
(refer to Capital Improvement Project form, Part IV - Continued)



  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                         Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                       CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                                (Current Dollars)
                                                                                                                        Part IV-B of V

Contract No. T201330007                                          Project Title Heritage Trail Improvements
                                             PART IV -CONSTRUCTION (CONTINUED)
E. PROJECT TRAFFIC ITEMS                           $89,000                    P. REIMBURSABLE UTILITY                               $0
                                                                              RELOCATIONS BY OTHERS
   1. Signing Structures                                                                  (Enter on PNR funding line 7)
     a. Overhead Bridges                                   $0                    1. Water

    b. Cantilever Supports                                 $0                       2. Sanitary Sewer

   2. Roadway Lighting                             $87,000                          3. Electric

   3. Pavement Markings                                $2,000                       4. Telephone
   Other (specify)
   4.                                                                               5. Gas

F. WETLAND MITIGATION                                                               6. CATV
                                                                                    Other (specify)
G. UTILITY RELOC. IN CONTRACT                              $0                       7.

   1. Water                                                                         8.

   2. Sanitary Sewer                                                          Utilities
   Other (specify)                                                            Estimator:                        Date:
   3.
                                                                              Q. TRAFFIC SECTION ITEMS                         $5,000
H. SUBTOTAL (A thru G) ROUNDED                     $179,000                              (Enter on PNR funding line 6)
                                                                                1. Signing                                     $5,000
I. MISC. ITEMS                                         $35,800
(15% of H for large projects and 20% for small)                                     2. Signals
(At SF submission use 10% and 5%)
                                20%                                                 3. Detour Signing
                              (% used)
J. CONTRACTOR'S CONST. ENG.                             $8,950                      4. DelTrac
(normally 5% of H)               5%                                                 Other (specify)
                              (% used)                                              5.

K. INITIAL EXPENSE                                      $8,950                Traffic
(normally 5% of H)              5%                                            Estimator:                        Date:
                              (% used)

L. CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENCY           $17,900
(normally 10% of H)            10%
                             (% used)
M. TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS (H thru L)                                                                                       $250,600
(Enter on PNR funding line 5)
N. CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING (normally 15% of construction costs)                                            15%                $37,590
(Enter on PNR funding line 4)                                                                             (% used)
O. TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS (Construction Costs + Construction Engineering)                                                  $288,190
(use this total + Q + P for Construction Project Estimate from line 7d)

Estimator:    WR&A                                                                       Date: 10/03/13

  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                         Last Modified: 10/3/2013
                        CAPITAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
                                                       (Current Dollars)                                         Part V of V

Contract No. T201330007                                       Project Title: Heritage Trail Improvements

                                                        SUMMARY


PART I - LOCATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES                                                                                      $0
(Part I to be included only for class "I" and "III" projects)


PART II - PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING                                                                                          $66,000


PART III - REAL ESTATE                                                                                                           $0


PART IV - CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                    $293,190


TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                                                                                             $359,190
(also total for Construction Project Estimate from line 7c)


                                                                                  Date:
                           Project Manager


REVIEWED & CONCURRED IN:


                                                                                  Date:
                           Section Head


NOTE: Concurring section heads are to forward the original estimate copy to the Director of Transportation Solutions with
one estimate copy each to the Assistant Director of Project Development, Assistant Director of Design Support, and the Cost
Estimate Engineer.




  Delaware Department of Transportation CIP Estimate                                                       Last Modified: 10/3/2013
        Tab 7 
     
                                                                                             MEMORANDUM
 Date: February 11, 2013

 To: David Duszak, WR&A                                                  Work Order Number: 31745-017
 From: Laura Callens, WR&A
 Subject: Environmental Site Features                                    Project: DelDOT: Industrial Track Trail, Phase IV
                                                                         Concept Design
 CC: Bob Siegfried, WR&A



This memorandum provides a summary of the existing natural resources issues associated with the site. A field visit
was conducted on January 31, 2013 by WR&A to visually identify any environmental features that may require
federal and/or state permitting, including jurisdictional non-tidal wetlands and waterways specifically in the areas of
the proposed trail route alternatives connecting the southern end of the New Castle Heritage Trail to Battery Park in
the City of New Castle. No survey, flagging, precise delineation, or preparation of CADD products were included and
these findings are based on best professional judgment and should used for planning purposes only. The study area
contains two wetlands and an ephemeral ditch.

Wetland 1 and Ditch
One linear non-tidal palustrine emergent (PEM) wetland was identified along the northern portion of the alignment
adjacent to the existing New Castle Heritage Trail. This wetland was previously identified as "Wetland 1" during the
SR 273 Trail study. The hand auger was used to examine the soils for indicators of hydric soil, which were found to
be present. A dark muck surface overlaid 6" of hydric soil above a hard pan of fill and gravel. Primary indicators of
wetland hydrology observed were Surface Water (A1), Saturation (A3), and Thin Muck Surface (C7). Vegetation
observed in the wetland consisted of soft rush (Juncus effuses, FACW), swamp smartweed (polygonum
hydropiperoides, OBL), and narrow-leaf cat-tail (Typha angustifolia, OBL). The wetland parallels the Heritage Trail for
approximately 300 feet and discontinues just north of 10th street, where the water flows into a 3' wide man-made
ephemeral ditch for approximately 250' and then enters the storm drain system approximately 2,500 feet from the
Delaware River. The exact limits of the wetland should be determined through a thorough wetland delineation. It
appears that this wetland formed within a ditch that developed wetland characteristics due to a lack of periodic
maintenance. The ditch was constructed within uplands and therefore the ditch and wetlands are not naturally
occurring. We believe that this wetland and ditch would not be regulated because they lack a significant nexus to
regulated Waters of the U.S.; however a Jurisdictional Determination with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer must be
conducted to confirm.

Wetland 2
Another PEM wetland was identified within Battery Park, just south of the New Castle Presbyterian Cemetery and
southwest of the industrial buildings along South Street. A hand auger was used to examine the soils within the
wetland for indicators of hydric soil, which were found to be present. The soil profile was comprised of 12" of soil
with matrix color of 10YR4/2 (90%) with redox features of color 5YR5/8 (10%). The soil texture was a silt loam, with
an abundance of roots throughout. This soil profile satisfies the Depleted Matrix (F3) hydric soil indicator. Primary
indicators of wetland hydrology observed were Surface Water (A1), Saturation (A3). Vegetation observed in the
wetland consisted of narrow leaf cattail (Typha angustifolia; OBL) and common reed (Phragmites australis; FACW),
with sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua; FAC) and silky dogwood (Cornus amomum; FACW) along the fringe. All




                                           V:\31745-017\Engineering\Corresp\Memos\Memo-Industrial Tract Phase IV_Natural Resources.docx
February 11, 2013                                         Page 2                                                          31745-017
three wetland parameters were met, confirming the presence of a wetland. It appears that a small portion of the
wetland continues into the adjacent industrial property within the fence line, where topography remains flat and
ponding is occurring. The exact limits of the wetland should be determined through a thorough wetland
delineation. We believe that this wetland would be regulated due to its close proximity and significant nexus to the
Delaware River; however a Jurisdictional Determination with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer must be conducted to
confirm.

Permitting Considerations
Impacts to any jurisdictional waters, including tidal and non-tidal wetlands, require submission of a Nationwide
Permit to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Impacts to jurisdictional waters, including tidal wetlands, require
submission of a Subaqueous Lands Permit to the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental
Control (DNREC). DNREC does not regulate non-tidal wetlands. The limits of the wetlands on-site should be
determined through a thorough wetland delineation. The wetland delineation may be verified by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers through a Jurisdictional Determination which establishes the legally accepted boundary upon
which all permits and enforcement activities would be based.

If more detail and documentation of the findings is required, or if there are any questions about the contents of this
technical memorandum, please contact me at 443-224-1633, email lcallens@wrallp.com




________________________________________
Laura C. Callens, CFM
Environmental Scientist




                                           V:\31745-017\Engineering\Corresp\Memos\Memo-Industrial Tract Phase IV_Natural Resources.docx
                                                                       MEMORANDUM of MEETING
 Date: May 20, 2013

 Date of Meeting: May 16, 2013                                                      Work Order Number: 31745-017
 Time of Meeting: 10:00 am
 Meeting Location: Project site                                                     Project: New Castle Industrial Track Trail,
                                                                                    Phase IV, Concept Design
 Meeting Description: Field Review of Environmental Features

 CC:
 Marco Boyce DelDOT
 Joy Ford, DelDOT
 Amanda Baxter, WR&A
 Bob Siegfried, WR&A


Participants:
            Name                                  Company                        Phone                           Email
 Ken Dunne                            DelDOT                                 302-760-2130            Ken.Dunne@state.de.us
 Laura Callens                        WR&A                                   443-224-1633            lcallens@wrallp.com
 Dave Duszak                          WR&A                                   302-571-9001            dduszak@wrallp.com

A field review of the environmental site features for the New Castle Industrial Track Trail, Phase IV, Concept Design
project was conducted by WR&A and DelDOT Environmental staff. The purpose of the project is to evaluate trail
alignment alternatives to connect the New Castle Industrial Track Trail to Battery Park. The section of the existing
New Castle Industrial Track Trail located south of SR 273 is also known as the New Castle Heritage Trail.

As part of the work scope, WR&A is also evaluating the condition of the existing New Castle Heritage Trail. Elements
being evaluated include pavement conditions, drainage, geometrics, ADA-compliance, landscaping, and lighting.

A map of the existing trails and wetlands is attached. A summary of discussions regarding Wetland 1 and Wetland 2
is below:

Wetland 1

Wetland 1 is located directly adjacent to the existing New Castle Heritage Trail between SR 273 and 9th Street. The
group observed the area around Wetland 1, including the upstream portion north of the culvert crossing at SR 273.
Ms. Callens felt that Wetland 1 and associated ditch would not be considered jurisdictional because the wetland
appears to have been formed within a ditch that developed wetland characteristics due to a lack of periodic
maintenance. The ditch was constructed within uplands and therefore the ditch and wetlands were not naturally
occurring. Also, the wetland and ditch would not be regulated because they lack a significant nexus to regulated
Waters of the U.S. Mr. Dunne recommended that paper soil survey maps be consulted to determine if a black line
historic stream appears in the location of the ditch. If that is the case, Mr. Dunne agrees with Ms. Callens regarding




            \\wra\dwraproj\31745-017\Engineering\Corresp\Meetings\2013-05-16 - Environmental Field View\2013-05-16 Environmental Field Review.docx
May 16, 2013                                                        Page 2                                                           31745-017
the jurisdictional status for similar reasons as stated. The issue of the jurisdictional status may be a moot point
because Mr. Duszak believes that any potential upgrades or modifications to the New Castle Heritage Trail, including
re-surfacing and/or widening the trail by an additional 2-feet, can be accomplished without impacting the wetland
or ditch.

Wetland 2

Wetland 2 is located southwest of the former Brosius-Eliason industrial site. One potential trail alignment to
connect the New Castle Heritage Trail to Battery Park consists of a trail through the former Brosius-Eliason site
if/when the property is re-developed.

The group walked the potential trail alignment and viewed Wetland 2 from the New Castle Presbyterian Cemetery.
Access within the former Brosius-Eliason site is restricted and a chain-link fence is located around the parcel's
perimeter. Mr. Dunne and Ms. Callens agreed that access within the fence and a full delineation of Wetland 2 would
be required before a proposed trail alignment can be determined. It is likely that based on the visual observance of
hydrophytic vegetation that the wetland extends into the fenced area. Mr. Dunne suggested that it is possible that
an insufficient amount of fill was placed when the site was graded and the wetlands continue to encroach. Mr.
Duszak stated that DelDOT and WR&A met with the property owner in April 2013 and the owner confirmed that a
trail through the parcel was likely a feasible option when the site is re-developed, although the timeline for re-
development is uncertain at this time.

Follow-up

Ms. Callens confirmed that no historic black line stream is located where Wetland 1 exists today. Only a historic
railroad line is shown in this location. Attached is a copy of the New Castle County 1970 Soil Survey showing the
location of Wetland 1.

The above is a memorandum of understanding between the parties regarding the topics discussed and the decisions
reached. Any participants desiring to add to, or otherwise amend the minutes, are requested to put their comments
in writing to the writer within seven (7) days; otherwise, the minutes will stand as written.




_______________________________
Laura Callens
Environmental Scientist




            \\wra\dwraproj\31745-017\Engineering\Corresp\Meetings\2013-05-16 - Environmental Field View\2013-05-16 Environmental Field Review.docx
                                                                                                                                    N
                     273




                                   t
                                  e
                                re
                               t
                              S
                         th
                                   C
                                     l




                       0
                                     a




                      1
                                       y
                                        to
                                          n
                                              S
                                               tre
                                                  e
                                                   t
WETLAND 1




                                              t
                                             e
                                           re
                                          t
                                         S
                                    th
                                   9



                                               New Castle Industrial Track Trail /
                                               New Castle Heritage Trail
                              Yo




                        et
                      e
                                un




                     tr                                                                                                            9

                                                             t
                    S
                                                            e
                                                           e
                                  g




               th
                                                          r
              9
                                                         t

             .
                                                        S
                                   St




         W




                                                                                  t
                                                    h




                                                                                 e
                                     r




                                                   t
                                      ee




                                                                                e
                                                  8




                                                                               r
                                                                                                                           T




                                                                              t
                                                                                                                            r
                                        t




                                                                             S
                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                                              m




                                                                         h
                              Young                                                                                               o



                                                                        t
                                                                                                                                   n

                                                                       7
                              Street                                                                                                t
                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                       t
                                                                    W
                              Park      R                                                                                              t




                                                                                                      e
                                       R                                                                                                r




                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                         e




                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                          e




                                                                                                   t
                                    rn                                                                                                     t




                                                                                                  S
                                   e
                                 th




                                                                                             th
                                u




                                                                                            6
                               o                                        S




                                                                                           .
                              S




                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                         ou




                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                                           W
                         k                                                 th




                                                                                                                                          e
                         l




                                                                                                                                        r
                       o                                                        S




                                                                                                                                        t
                      rf                                                         tr




                                                                                                                                      S
                     o                                                            e e
                    N                                                                t




                                                                                                                                th
                                                                                                                               5
                                              t




                                                                                                                              .
                                           e e




                                                                                                                             W
                                          tr
                                         S
                                    th
                                  .7
                              W

                                          GrayS                                                                                      Goodwill
                                               tr
                                                e et
                                                                                                                                       Fire
         9                                                                                                                           Company
                                                   New Castle
              Eric A. Hutt                                                      Brosius-
                                                   Presbyterian
                Motors                                                          Eliason               New Castle
                                                    Cemetery
                                                                                (former)                Senior
                                                                                                        Center                        y
                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                            te
                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                             P
                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                          tre
                                                                                                                             e




                                                                   WETLAND 2
                                                                                                                              t




                                                                                                                              New Castle
                                                                                                                               Battery
                                                                                                                                Park
                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                               e
                                                                                                             re
                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                     rd
                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                  W




                                                                                                                             Battery Park
                                                                                                                             Trail

                                                                                                           Delaware
NOTES:                                                                                                      River
1. Aerial photography is from 2007.

2. Existing Right-of-Way as shown
 is approximate.                                                                                           NEW CASTLE
                                                                                                      INDUSTRIAL TRACK TRAIL,
                                                                                                             PHASE 4

                                                                                                             FEASIBILITY STUDY
                                                                                                           SCALE: NONE                    SHEET 1 OF 1
 q
Lo
o
o
a




     3
     o
     N




                                     (Joins sheet 21)



                      NEW CASTLE COUNTY, DELAWARE t'to' 20
                     I\ EYY !AÒ I LE LUUN I f , Dt:.LAWARI= NU. 2   \




         Wetland 1
                                      (Joins sheel 20)




 o
 ¡
Tab 8 
                                                                                          Option 1: Mid-block Crossing at 7th Street, Less than 20 pedestrians/hour


                                                                                        GUIDELINES FOR PEDESTRIAN CROSSING TREATMENTS
                                                                       This spreadsheet combines Worksheet 1 and Worksheet 2 (Appendix A, pages 69-70) of TCRP Report 112/NCHRP Report 562
                                                                         (Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Intersections ) into an electronic format. This spreadsheet should be used in
                                                                                                    conjunction with, and not independent of, Appendix A documentation.
                                                            Key                           This spreadsheet is still under development, please inform TTI if errors are identified.
                                                                       Blue fields contain descriptive information.
                                                                       Green fields are required and must be completed.
                                                                       Tan fields are adjustments that are filled out only under certain conditions (follow instructions to the left of the cell).
                                                                       Gray fields are automatically calculated and should not be edited.

                          Analyst and Site Information
                                                                           Analyst WR&A                                                    Major Street 7th Street (SR 9), New Castle
                                                                      Analysis Date May 24, 2013                              Minor Street or Location Industrial Track Trail, Phase IV
                                                            Data Collection Date May 8, 2013                                                    Peak Hour 4:45 - 5:45 pm
                          Step 1: Select worksheet:
                                        Posted or statutory speed limit (or 85th percentile speed) on the major street (mph)                                                              1a          27
                                        Is the population of the surrounding area <10,000? (enter YES or NO )                                                                             1b          YES
                          Step 2: Does the crossing meet minimum pedestrian volumes to be considered for a traffic control device?
                                        Peak-hour pedestrian volume (ped/h), Vp                                                                                                           2a          19
                                           Result: Consider raised median islands, curb extensions, traffic calming, etc. as feasible.
                          Step 3: Does the crossing meet the pedestrian warrant for a traffic signal?
                                        Major road volume, total of both approaches during peak hour (veh/h), V maj-s                                                                     3a          632
                                        [Calculated automatically] Preliminary (before min. threshold) peak hour pedestrian volume to meet warrant                                        3b          217
                                        [Calculated automatically] Minimum required peak hour pedestrian volume to meet traffic signal warrant                                            3c          217
                                        Is 15th percentile crossing speed of pedestrians less than 3.5 ft/s (1.1 m/s)? (enter YES or NO )                                                 3d          NO
                                        If 15th percentile crossing speed of pedestrians is less than 3.5 ft/s                              % rate of reduction for 3c (up to 50%)        3e
                                         (1.1 m/s), then reduce 3c by up to 50%.                                                            Reduced value or 3c                           3f          217
                                                            Result:
                          Step 4: Estimate pedestrian delay.
                                        Pedestrian crossing distance, curb to curb (ft), L                                                                                                4a          32
                                        Pedestrian walking speed (ft/s), Sp (suggested speed = 3.5 ft/s)                                                                                  4b          3.5
                                        Pedestrian start-up time and end clearance time (s), t s (suggested start-up time = 3 sec)                                                        4c           3
                                        [Calculated automatically] Critical gap required for crossing pedestrian (s), t c                                                                 4d          12
                                        Major road volume, total both approaches OR approach being crossed if raised median island
                                         is present, during peak hour (veh/h), Vmaj-d                                                                                                     4e          632

                                        Major road flow rate (veh/s), v                                                                                                                   4f          0.25
                                        Average pedestrian delay (s/person), dp                                                                                                           4g          67
                                        Total pedestrian delay (h), Dp  The value in 4h is the calculated estimated delay for all pedestrians crossing the                                4h          0.4
                                          major roadway without a crossing treatment (assumes 0% compliance). If the actual total pedestrian delay
                                                                                                                                                                                          4i
                                          has been measured at the site, that value can be entered in 4i to replace the calculated value in 4h.
                          Step 5: Select treatment based up on total pedestrian delay and expected motorist compliance.
                                        Expected motorist compliance at pedestrian crossings in region: enter HIGH for High Compliance or LOW for Low
                                                                                                                                                                                          5a          low
                                        Compliance
                                                                                                                Consider raised median islands, curb extensions, traffic calming, etc. as
                                                                      Treatment Category:
                                                                                                                                               feasible.
                                                            700
                    Pedestrian Volume Crossing Major Road




                                                            600

                                                            500

                                                            400
                                    (ped/h)




                                                            300

                                                            200

                                                            100

                                                                  0
                                                                      1                300                600                 900                   1200             1500                 1800          2100
                                                                                                                    Major Road Volume (veh/h)
                                                                                    No Treatment             Crosswalk            Active/Enhanced                 Red       Signal (proposed)




                  This worksheet provides general recommendations on pedestrian crossing treatments to consider at unsignalized intersections; in all cases,
                  engineering judgment should be used in selecting a specific treatment for installation. This worksheet does not apply to school crossings.
                  In addition to the results provided by this worksheet, users should consider whether a pedestrian treatment could present an increased
                  safety risk to pedestrians, such as where there is poor sight distance, complex geometrics, or nearby traffic signals.


Spreadsheet developed by                                                                                                                                                                                      PED-CROSSING v 0.5
Texas Transportation Institute                                                                                              Printed 7/10/2013                                                                (Released August 2007)
                                                                                          Option2: Mid-block Crossing at 7th Street, 20 pedestrians/hour or greater


                                                                                        GUIDELINES FOR PEDESTRIAN CROSSING TREATMENTS
                                                                       This spreadsheet combines Worksheet 1 and Worksheet 2 (Appendix A, pages 69-70) of TCRP Report 112/NCHRP Report 562
                                                                         (Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Intersections ) into an electronic format. This spreadsheet should be used in
                                                                                                    conjunction with, and not independent of, Appendix A documentation.
                                                            Key                           This spreadsheet is still under development, please inform TTI if errors are identified.
                                                                       Blue fields contain descriptive information.
                                                                       Green fields are required and must be completed.
                                                                       Tan fields are adjustments that are filled out only under certain conditions (follow instructions to the left of the cell).
                                                                       Gray fields are automatically calculated and should not be edited.

                          Analyst and Site Information
                                                                           Analyst WR&A                                                    Major Street 7th Street (SR 9), New Castle
                                                                      Analysis Date May 24, 2013                              Minor Street or Location Industrial Track Trail, Phase IV
                                                            Data Collection Date May 8, 2013                                                    Peak Hour 4:45 - 5:45 pm
                          Step 1: Select worksheet:
                                        Posted or statutory speed limit (or 85th percentile speed) on the major street (mph)                                                              1a          27
                                        Is the population of the surrounding area <10,000? (enter YES or NO )                                                                             1b          YES
                          Step 2: Does the crossing meet minimum pedestrian volumes to be considered for a traffic control device?
                                        Peak-hour pedestrian volume (ped/h), Vp                                                                                                           2a          20
                                           Result: Go to step 3.
                          Step 3: Does the crossing meet the pedestrian warrant for a traffic signal?
                                        Major road volume, total of both approaches during peak hour (veh/h), V maj-s                                                                     3a          632
                                        [Calculated automatically] Preliminary (before min. threshold) peak hour pedestrian volume to meet warrant                                        3b          217
                                        [Calculated automatically] Minimum required peak hour pedestrian volume to meet traffic signal warrant                                            3c          217
                                        Is 15th percentile crossing speed of pedestrians less than 3.5 ft/s (1.1 m/s)? (enter YES or NO )                                                 3d          NO
                                        If 15th percentile crossing speed of pedestrians is less than 3.5 ft/s                              % rate of reduction for 3c (up to 50%)        3e
                                         (1.1 m/s), then reduce 3c by up to 50%.                                                            Reduced value or 3c                           3f          217
                                                            Result: The signal warrant is not met. Go to step 4.
                          Step 4: Estimate pedestrian delay.
                                        Pedestrian crossing distance, curb to curb (ft), L                                                                                                4a          32
                                        Pedestrian walking speed (ft/s), Sp (suggested speed = 3.5 ft/s)                                                                                  4b          3.5
                                        Pedestrian start-up time and end clearance time (s), t s (suggested start-up time = 3 sec)                                                        4c           3
                                        [Calculated automatically] Critical gap required for crossing pedestrian (s), t c                                                                 4d          12
                                        Major road volume, total both approaches OR approach being crossed if raised median island
                                         is present, during peak hour (veh/h), Vmaj-d                                                                                                     4e          632

                                        Major road flow rate (veh/s), v                                                                                                                   4f          0.25
                                        Average pedestrian delay (s/person), dp                                                                                                           4g          67
                                        Total pedestrian delay (h), Dp  The value in 4h is the calculated estimated delay for all pedestrians crossing the                                4h          0.4
                                          major roadway without a crossing treatment (assumes 0% compliance). If the actual total pedestrian delay
                                                                                                                                                                                          4i
                                          has been measured at the site, that value can be entered in 4i to replace the calculated value in 4h.
                          Step 5: Select treatment based up on total pedestrian delay and expected motorist compliance.
                                        Expected motorist compliance at pedestrian crossings in region: enter HIGH for High Compliance or LOW for Low
                                                                                                                                                                                          5a          low
                                        Compliance
                                                                      Treatment Category:                                                           ACTIVE OR ENHANCED

                                                            700
                    Pedestrian Volume Crossing Major Road




                                                            600

                                                            500

                                                            400
                                    (ped/h)




                                                            300

                                                            200

                                                            100

                                                                  0
                                                                      1                300                600                 900                   1200             1500                 1800          2100
                                                                                                                    Major Road Volume (veh/h)
                                                                                    No Treatment             Crosswalk            Active/Enhanced                 Red       Signal (proposed)




                  This worksheet provides general recommendations on pedestrian crossing treatments to consider at unsignalized intersections; in all cases,
                  engineering judgment should be used in selecting a specific treatment for installation. This worksheet does not apply to school crossings.
                  In addition to the results provided by this worksheet, users should consider whether a pedestrian treatment could present an increased
                  safety risk to pedestrians, such as where there is poor sight distance, complex geometrics, or nearby traffic signals.


Spreadsheet developed by                                                                                                                                                                                      PED-CROSSING v 0.5
Texas Transportation Institute                                                                                              Printed 7/10/2013                                                                (Released August 2007)
      Whitman, Requardt and Associates, LLP            Speed   Number     Cumul.     % of       %
                Radar Speed Study                      (mph)   Vehicles   Vehicles   Total    Accum.
              Quantitative Summary
                                                        15            0          0       0%       0%
Description:                                            16            0          0       0%       0%
                                                        17            0          0       0%       0%
                Route: W. 7th Street                    18            1          1       7%       7%
                                                        19            0          1       0%       7%
             Direction: Eastbound                       20            2          3      13%      20%
                                                        21            1          4       7%      27%
             Location: 500 feet west of South Street    22            1          5       7%      33%
                                                        23            0          5       0%      33%
               County: New Castle                       24            2          7      13%      47%
                                                        25            2          9      13%      60%
Posted Speed Limit:               25                    26            3         12      20%      80%
                                                        27            2         14      13%      93%
                 Date: 5/2/2013                         28            0         14       0%      93%
                                                        29            0         14       0%      93%
                 Time: 4:00 - 5:00 pm                   30            1         15       7%     100%
                                                        31            0         15       0%     100%
              Weather: 60 degrees                       32            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        33            0         15       0%     100%
           WRA W.O.#: 31745-017                         34            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        35            0         15       0%     100%
           Recorder(s): Gunyuzlu                        36            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        37            0         15       0%     100%
            File Name: Speed study - 7th Street         38            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        39            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        40            0         15       0%     100%
Results:                                                41            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        42            0         15       0%     100%
  85th %-ile Speed =              27 mph                43            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        44            0         15       0%     100%
     Modal Speed =                26 mph                45            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        46            0         15       0%     100%
      Mean Speed =                24 mph                47            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        48            0         15       0%     100%
% Exceeding                                             49            0         15       0%     100%
Speed Limit =                 20%                       50            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        51            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        52            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        53            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        54            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        55            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        56            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        57            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        58            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        59            0         15       0%     100%
                                                        60            0         15       0%     100%
      Whitman, Requardt and Associates, LLP            Speed   Number     Cumul.     % of       %
                Radar Speed Study                      (mph)   Vehicles   Vehicles   Total    Accum.
              Quantitative Summary
                                                        15            0          0       0%       0%
Description:                                            16            0          0       0%       0%
                                                        17            2          2       8%       8%
                Route: W. 7th Street                    18            2          4       8%      16%
                                                        19            4          8      16%      32%
             Direction: Westbound                       20            3         11      12%      44%
                                                        21            1         12       4%      48%
             Location: 500 feet west of South Street    22            4         16      16%      64%
                                                        23            3         19      12%      76%
               County: New Castle                       24            0         19       0%      76%
                                                        25            2         21       8%      84%
Posted Speed Limit:               25                    26            1         22       4%      88%
                                                        27            1         23       4%      92%
                 Date: 5/2/2013                         28            0         23       0%      92%
                                                        29            1         24       4%      96%
                 Time: 4:00 - 5:00 pm                   30            1         25       4%     100%
                                                        31            0         25       0%     100%
              Weather: 60 degrees                       32            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        33            0         25       0%     100%
           WRA W.O.#: 31745-017                         34            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        35            0         25       0%     100%
           Recorder(s): Gunyuzlu                        36            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        37            0         25       0%     100%
            File Name: Speed study - 7th Street         38            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        39            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        40            0         25       0%     100%
Results:                                                41            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        42            0         25       0%     100%
  85th %-ile Speed =              25 mph                43            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        44            0         25       0%     100%
     Modal Speed =                22 mph                45            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        46            0         25       0%     100%
      Mean Speed =                22 mph                47            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        48            0         25       0%     100%
% Exceeding                                             49            0         25       0%     100%
Speed Limit =                 12%                       50            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        51            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        52            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        53            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        54            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        55            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        56            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        57            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        58            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        59            0         25       0%     100%
                                                        60            0         25       0%     100%
      Whitman, Requardt and Associates, LLP         Speed   Number     Cumul.     % of       %
                Radar Speed Study                   (mph)   Vehicles   Vehicles   Total    Accum.
              Quantitative Summary
                                                     15            1          1       3%       3%
Description:                                         16            4          5      10%      13%
                                                     17            3          8       8%      20%
                Route: South Street                  18            5         13      13%      33%
                                                     19            7         20      18%      50%
             Direction: Northbound                   20            5         25      13%      63%
                                                     21            2         27       5%      68%
             Location: W. 6th Street                 22            5         32      13%      80%
                                                     23            3         35       8%      88%
               County: New Castle                    24            1         36       3%      90%
                                                     25            2         38       5%      95%
Posted Speed Limit:               25                 26            2         40       5%     100%
                                                     27            0         40       0%     100%
                 Date: 5/2/2013                      28            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     29            0         40       0%     100%
                 Time: 4:00 - 5:00 pm                30            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     31            0         40       0%     100%
              Weather: 60 degrees                    32            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     33            0         40       0%     100%
           WRA W.O.#: 31745-017                      34            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     35            0         40       0%     100%
           Recorder(s): Gunyuzlu                     36            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     37            0         40       0%     100%
            File Name: Speed study - South Street    38            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     39            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     40            0         40       0%     100%
Results:                                             41            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     42            0         40       0%     100%
  85th %-ile Speed =              23 mph             43            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     44            0         40       0%     100%
     Modal Speed =                19 mph             45            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     46            0         40       0%     100%
      Mean Speed =                20 mph             47            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     48            0         40       0%     100%
% Exceeding                                          49            0         40       0%     100%
Speed Limit =                  5%                    50            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     51            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     52            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     53            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     54            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     55            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     56            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     57            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     58            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     59            0         40       0%     100%
                                                     60            0         40       0%     100%
      Whitman, Requardt and Associates, LLP         Speed   Number     Cumul.     % of       %
                Radar Speed Study                   (mph)   Vehicles   Vehicles   Total    Accum.
              Quantitative Summary
                                                     15            0          0       0%       0%
Description:                                         16            0          0       0%       0%
                                                     17            0          0       0%       0%
                Route: South Street                  18            1          1       4%       4%
                                                     19            2          3       7%      11%
             Direction: Southbound                   20            8         11      30%      41%
                                                     21            5         16      19%      59%
             Location: W. 6th Street                 22            1         17       4%      63%
                                                     23            3         20      11%      74%
               County: New Castle                    24            1         21       4%      78%
                                                     25            3         24      11%      89%
Posted Speed Limit:               25                 26            1         25       4%      93%
                                                     27            1         26       4%      96%
                 Date: 5/2/2013                      28            0         26       0%      96%
                                                     29            1         27       4%     100%
                 Time: 4:00 - 5:00 pm                30            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     31            0         27       0%     100%
              Weather: 60 degrees                    32            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     33            0         27       0%     100%
           WRA W.O.#: 31745-017                      34            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     35            0         27       0%     100%
           Recorder(s): Gunyuzlu                     36            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     37            0         27       0%     100%
            File Name: Speed study - South Street    38            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     39            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     40            0         27       0%     100%
Results:                                             41            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     42            0         27       0%     100%
  85th %-ile Speed =              25 mph             43            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     44            0         27       0%     100%
     Modal Speed =                20 mph             45            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     46            0         27       0%     100%
      Mean Speed =                22 mph             47            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     48            0         27       0%     100%
% Exceeding                                          49            0         27       0%     100%
Speed Limit =                 11%                    50            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     51            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     52            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     53            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     54            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     55            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     56            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     57            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     58            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     59            0         27       0%     100%
                                                     60            0         27       0%     100%
                                                            Tri-State Traffic Data, Inc.
                                                                     www.TSTData.com
Location:New Castle County, DE                                                                                                     File Name       : DD0508-2
Intersection:South St/7th Street                                                                                                   Site Code       : 00000000
Date:Wednesday, May 8, 2013                                                                                                        Start Date      : 5/8/2013
Counter:pb                                                                                                                         Page No         :1

                                                                 Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                    SOUTH STREET                           7TH STREET                     SOUTH STREET                          7TH STREET
                         Southbound                            Westbound                       Northbound                            Eastbound
 Start Time     Right Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM         2     4    0     0          6         0     5     0     1       6     0     9    16    0       25         53     1    22    0       76          113
  07:15 AM         1     1    0     0          2         1     4     1     1       7     0     1    18    1       20         66     2    37    0      105          134
  07:30 AM         1     2    0     0          3         0     5     0     1       6     0     3    24    0       27         94     2    27    0      123          159
  07:45 AM         1     2    0     0          3         1     2     1     0       4     1     5    25    0       31        107     2    28    0      137          175
      Total        5     9    0     0         14         2    16     2     3      23     1    18    83    1      103        320     7 114      0      441          581

  08:00 AM        3     2     1     0          6        1     2     1     0       4     0    5    25     0         30       70     1    21    0        92          132
  08:15 AM        2     4     0     1          7        0     3     0     0       3     0    3    12     0         15       51     3    16    0        70           95
  08:30 AM        4     2     2     0          8        2     2     1     0       5     0    4    22     0         26       46     2    12    0        60           99
  08:45 AM        1     3     2     0          6        1     5     2     0       8     0    4    16     0         20       30     2     9    0        41           75
      Total      10    11     5     1         27        4    12     4     0      20     0   16    75     0         91      197     8    58    0       263          401

*** BREAK ***

  04:00 PM        4     4     1     0          9        1    18     4     2     25      0    8    60     0        68        18     2     7    0        27          129
  04:15 PM        3     1     1     1          6        2    33     1     1     37      0   11    69     0        80        46     0     5    0        51          174
  04:30 PM        3     4     1     1          9        0    17     0     0     17      2    4    67     0        73        45     0     4    1        50          149
  04:45 PM        3     1     0     0          4        1    22     1     2     26      1    6    85     0        92        43     2     5    0        50          172
      Total      13    10     3     2         28        4    90     6     5    105      3   29   281     0       313       152     4    21    1       178          624

  05:00 PM        5     1     0     1          7        2     31    0     2     35      0    7    82     0        89        36     0     1    0        37          168
  05:15 PM        5     2     0     0          7        2     36    0     0     38      0    4    85     0        89        29     0     4    0        33          167
  05:30 PM        5     2     0     0          7        1     22    1     0     24      1    3    94     0        98        27     1     9    0        37          166
  05:45 PM        4     1     0     0          5        0     11    1     0     12      0    3    67     0        70        23     2    10    0        35          122
      Total      19     6     0     1         26        5    100    2     2    109      1   17   328     0       346       115     3    24    0       142          623

 Grand Total      47   36     8      4        95       15 218   14       10    257      5   80 767       1       853        784    22 217      1    1024         2229
  Apprch % 49.5 37.9        8.4    4.2                5.8 84.8 5.4      3.9           0.6  9.4 89.9    0.1                 76.6   2.1 21.2   0.1
    Total %       2.1 1.6   0.4    0.2      4.3       0.7  9.8 0.6      0.4    11.5   0.2  3.6 34.4      0      38.3       35.2     1  9.7     0    45.9
         Cars     47   34     8      4       93        15 218   13       10     256     5   78 754       1       838        760    22 217      1    1000         2187
     % Cars 100 94.4        100   100      97.9       100 100 92.9      100    99.6   100 97.5 98.3    100      98.2       96.9   100 100    100    97.7         98.1
 Heavy Vehicles     0   2     0      0        2         0    0   1        0       1     0    2   13      0        15         24     0    0     0      24           42
 % Heavy Vehicles   0 5.6     0      0      2.1         0    0 7.1        0     0.4     0  2.5  1.7      0       1.8        3.1     0    0     0     2.3          1.9
                                                     Tri-State Traffic Data, Inc.
                                                           www.TSTData.com
Location:New Castle County, DE                                                                           File Name    : DD0508-2
Intersection:South St/7th Street                                                                         Site Code    : 00000000
Date:Wednesday, May 8, 2013                                                                              Start Date   : 5/8/2013
Counter:pb                                                                                               Page No      :2

                                                             SOUTH STREET
                                                             Out     In   Total
                                                              310      93   403
                                                                 2      2     4
                                                              312      95   407


                                                               47   34        8   4
                                                                0     2       0   0
                                                               47   36        8   4
                                                            Right Thru    Left Peds
                    2019

                    2056
                       37



                                   217

                                   217
                                      0




                                                                                      Right Thru
                    Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                    7TH STREET
                                                                                         15

                                                                                         15
                                                                                          0



                                                                                                      35

                                                                                                      35
                                                                                                        0
                                                                     North
                                               22

                                               22
                                                 0

                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                             218

                                                                                             218
                          1000

                          1024
                             24




                                                               5/8/2013 07:00 AM
                  7TH STREET
                           In




                                                                                                0




                                                                                                            In
                                                               5/8/2013 05:45 PM




                                                                                                            257

                                                                                                            256
                                         760

                                         784
                                          24




                                                                                      Left Peds




                                                                                                               1
                                                                                        14

                                                                                        13
                                                               Cars




                                                                                          1
                   1019

                   1032
                     13




                                                               Heavy Vehicles
                   Out




                                                                                                    Total
                                     1
                                     0
                                     1




                                                                                                     292

                                                                                                     291
                                                                                             10

                                                                                             10



                                                                                                        1
                                                                                              0
                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                              754   78     5    1
                                                               13     2    0    0
                                                              767   80     5    1


                                                              807     838  1645
                                                               27      15    42
                                                              834     853  1687
                                                             Out     In   Total
                                                             SOUTH STREET
                                                                         Tri-State Traffic Data, Inc.
                                                                                    www.TSTData.com
Location:New Castle County, DE                                                                                                                                   File Name             : DD0508-2
Intersection:South St/7th Street                                                                                                                                 Site Code             : 00000000
Date:Wednesday, May 8, 2013                                                                                                                                      Start Date            : 5/8/2013
Counter:pb                                                                                                                                                       Page No               :3


                 SOUTH STREET                         7TH STREET                                                  SOUTH STREET                                7TH STREET
                         Southbound                       Westbound                                                    Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds         App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       1       1      0    0        2     1     4    1    1                                   7        0       1    18      1         20        66      2        37     0       105          134
  07:30 AM       1       2      0    0        3     0     5    0    1                                 6          0       3    24      0         27        94      2     27        0       123          159
  07:45 AM       1       2      0    0        3     1     2    1    0                                 4          1       5    25      0         31       107      2     28        0       137           175
  08:00 AM       3       2      1    0        6     1     2    1    0                                 4          0     5      25      0        30         70      1     21        0        92          132
 Total Volume    6       7      1    0       14     3    13    3    2                                21          1    14      92      1       108        337      7    113        0       457          600
% App. Total        42.9     50    7.1      0                 14.3        61.9   14.3     9.5                  0.9     13    85.2    0.9                 73.7    1.5   24.7        0
       PHF          .500   .875   .250   .000     .583        .750        .650   .750    .500      .750       .250   .700    .920   .250      .871       .787   .875   .764     .000      .834         .857
       Cars            6      6      1      0       13           3          13      2       2        20          1     13      90      1       105        332      7    113        0       452          590
    % Cars           100   85.7    100      0     92.9         100         100   66.7     100      95.2        100   92.9    97.8    100      97.2       98.5    100    100        0      98.9         98.3
 Heavy Vehicles
 % Heavy Vehicles     0 14.3        0        0    7.1                0      0 33.3          0       4.8          0   7.1     2.2      0        2.8        1.5     0        0      0        1.1          1.7

                                                                                          SOUTH STREET
                                                                                          Out     In   Total
                                                                                           129      13   142
                                                                                              1      1     2
                                                                                           130      14   144


                                                                                            6     6              1   0
                                                                                            0     1              0   0
                                                                                            6     7              1   0
                                                                                        Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                     561

                                     568
                                        7



                                                   113

                                                   113
                                                      0




                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                    Total




                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                            7TH STREET
                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               3


                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                    North
                                                                 7
                                                                 0
                                                                 7
                                                  Peds Right Thru
                                           452

                                           457
                                              5




                                                                                                                                                   13

                                                                                                                                                   13




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                  7TH STREET
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                                      21

                                                                                                                                                                      20
                                                         332

                                                         337
                                                           5




                                                                                                                                           Left Peds




                                                                                        Cars
                                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                        Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               2
                                    109

                                    111
                                       2
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                               30

                                                                                                                                                               29
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                         Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                           90   13     1    1
                                                                                             2    1    0    0
                                                                                           92   14     1    1


                                                                                           340     105   445
                                                                                              7      3    10
                                                                                           347     108   455
                                                                                          Out     In   Total
                                                                                          SOUTH STREET
                                                                         Tri-State Traffic Data, Inc.
                                                                                    www.TSTData.com
Location:New Castle County, DE                                                                                                                                           File Name             : DD0508-2
Intersection:South St/7th Street                                                                                                                                         Site Code             : 00000000
Date:Wednesday, May 8, 2013                                                                                                                                              Start Date            : 5/8/2013
Counter:pb                                                                                                                                                               Page No               :4

                 SOUTH STREET                         7TH STREET                                                  SOUTH STREET                                        7TH STREET
                         Southbound                       Westbound                                                    Northbound                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds                  App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM       3       1      0    0        4     1    22    1    2                                26                 1       6     85      0            92     43      2        5      0         50          172
  05:00 PM       5       1      0    1        7     2    31    0    2                                35                 0        7    82      0            89     36      0        1      0        37          168
  05:15 PM       5       2      0    0        7     2    36    0    0                                38                 0        4    85      0            89     29      0        4      0        33          167
  05:30 PM       5       2      0    0        7     1    22    1    0                               24                  1        3    94      0            98     27      1         9     0        37          166
 Total Volume  18        6      0    1       25     6 111      2    4                              123                  2       20   346      0           368    135      3        19     0       157          673
% App. Total          72     24      0      4                  4.9        90.2    1.6     3.3                   0.5          5.4       94      0                   86    1.9   12.1        0
       PHF          .900   .750   .000   .250     .893        .750        .771   .500    .500      .809        .500         .714     .920   .000          .939   .785   .375   .528     .000      .785         .978
       Cars           18      6      0      1       25           6         111      2       4       123           2           20      343      0           365    130      3     19        0       152          665
    % Cars           100    100      0    100      100         100         100    100     100       100         100          100     99.1      0          99.2   96.3    100    100        0      96.8         98.8
 Heavy Vehicles
 % Heavy Vehicles     0      0      0        0        0              0      0      0        0          0                0       0    0.9      0           0.8     3.7     0        0      0        3.2          1.2

                                                                                          SOUTH STREET
                                                                                          Out     In                    Total
                                                                                            45      25                     70
                                                                                              0      0                      0
                                                                                            45      25                     70


                                                                                           18     6                 0      1
                                                                                            0     0                 0      0
                                                                                           18     6                 0      1
                                                                                        Right Thru           Left       Peds




                                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                        8
                                     624

                                     632



                                                       0
                                                    19

                                                    19




                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                    Total




                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                                    7TH STREET
                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       6


                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    North                                                           5
                                                                 3
                                                                 0
                                                                 3
                                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                          111

                                                                                                                                                          111
                                              5
                                            152

                                            157




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                  7TH STREET
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                                                            123

                                                                                                                                                                            123
                                                           5
                                                         130

                                                         135




                                                                                                                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                        Cars
                                                                                        Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                       3
                                    472

                                    475
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                   Peds




                                                                                                                                                                     128

                                                                                                                                                                     128
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      4




                                                                                         Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                          343     20     2    0
                                                                                              3     0    0    0
                                                                                          346     20     2    0


                                                                                           138     365                    503
                                                                                              5      3                      8
                                                                                           143     368                    511
                                                                                          Out     In                    Total
                                                                                          SOUTH STREET
                                                                 Tri-State Traffic Data, Inc.
                                                                          www.TSTData.com
Location:New Castle County, DE                                                                                                          File Name       : DD0508-1
Intersection: 6th St / South St                                                                                                         Site Code       : 00000000
Date: Wednesday, May 8, 2013                                                                                                            Start Date      : 5/8/2013
Counter:RZ                                                                                                                              Page No         :1

                                                                    Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                            SOUTH ST                             6TH ST                         SOUTH ST                               6TH ST
                           Southbound                               Westbound                      Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time Right        Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM           5      6  42     1         54         13       3    1    0       17      3     8   0     0        11         0       0    2    0          2         84
  07:15 AM           0      6  60     1         67         13       1    1    2       17      2     5   0     0         7         0       1    0    0          1         92
  07:30 AM           0      7  89     0         96         20       1    0    0       21      2     8   0     0        10         0       1    0    0          1        128
  07:45 AM           0      6 107     1        114         22       0    0    0       22      3     6   0     0         9         0       1    2    0          3        148
      Total          5    25 298      3        331         68       5    2    2       77     10   27    0     0        37         0       3    4    0          7        452

  08:00 AM           2     7    69     0        78         22      0     2     0     24     0     6     0    1          7         1      0    1     0          2        111
  08:15 AM           0    10    44     3        57          9      0     4     0     13     4     3     0    0          7         0      0    3     0          3         80
  08:30 AM           1     5    41     0        47         22      0     2     1     25     1     3     0    0          4         0      0    4     0          4         80
  08:45 AM           0     1    32     0        33         11      2     1     0     14     4     6     0    0         10         0      0    0     0          0         57
      Total          3    23   186     3       215         64      2     9     1     76     9    18     0    1         28         1      0    8     0          9        328

*** BREAK ***

  04:00 PM           0     9    13     0        22        54       0     7     4     65     2    10     0    0         12         0      1    1     0         2         101
  04:15 PM           0    10    36     0        46        67       3     7     1     78     4    17     1    0         22         0      5    2     0         7         153
  04:30 PM           0    11    38     0        49        59       0     0     0     59     6    18     0    0         24         0      0    0     0         0         132
  04:45 PM           0     8    40     0        48        75       0     1     5     81     2    13     0    2         17         0      2    1     2         5         151
      Total          0    38   127     0       165       255       3    15    10    283    14    58     1    2         75         0      8    4     2        14         537

  05:00 PM           1     9   32      0        42        75       2     2     1     80     3    10     0    0         13         0      2    2     0         4         139
  05:15 PM           1     3   26      0        30        82       1     2     0     85     1    14     1    0         16         1      1    2     0         4         135
  05:30 PM           0    11   22      0        33        84       0     3     0     87     2    10     0    0         12         0      0    0     0         0         132
  05:45 PM           0    12   11      0        23        54       0     1     0     55     3    14     1    1         19         2      1    0     1         4         101
      Total          2    35   91      0       128       295       3     8     1    307     9    48     2    1         60         3      4    4     1        12         507

 Grand Total         10 121 702         6      839        682      13   34    14    743    42 151       3     4      200         4   15   20        3        42       1824
  Apprch %          1.2 14.4 83.7     0.7                91.8     1.7  4.6   1.9           21 75.5    1.5     2                9.5 35.7 47.6      7.1
   Total %          0.5  6.6 38.5     0.3       46       37.4     0.7  1.9   0.8   40.7   2.3  8.3    0.2   0.2       11       0.2  0.8  1.1      0.2      2.3
      Cars           10 121 676         6      813        667      13   33    14    727    42 151       3     4      200         4   15   20        3       42        1782
    % Cars          100 100 96.3     100      96.9       97.8     100 97.1   100   97.8   100 100     100   100      100       100 100 100        100      100        97.7
 Heavy Vehicles       0    0   26       0       26         15       0    1     0     16     0    0      0     0        0         0    0    0        0        0          42
 % Heavy Vehicles     0    0  3.7       0      3.1        2.2       0  2.9     0    2.2     0    0      0     0        0         0    0    0        0        0         2.3
                                                    Tri-State Traffic Data, Inc.
                                                          www.TSTData.com
Location:New Castle County, DE                                                                             File Name    : DD0508-1
Intersection: 6th St / South St                                                                            Site Code    : 00000000
Date: Wednesday, May 8, 2013                                                                               Start Date   : 5/8/2013
Counter:RZ                                                                                                 Page No      :2

                                                                   SOUTH ST
                                                            Out       In    Total
                                                             838       813   1651
                                                              15        26     41
                                                             853       839   1692


                                                              10  121     676    6
                                                               0     0     26    0
                                                              10  121     702    6
                                                           Right Thru    Left Peds
                       68

                       68
                        0




                                     0
                                   20

                                   20




                                                                                       Right Thru
                    Total




                                 Left




                                                                                         682

                                                                                         667




                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                          15



                                                                                                      759

                                                                                                      733

                                                                                                       6TH ST
                                                                                                       26
                                                                     North
                                              15

                                              15
                                                0

                                 Peds Right Thru
                            42

                            42
                             0




                                                                                               13

                                                                                               13
                                                              5/8/2013 07:00 AM
                          In




                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                              In
                                                              5/8/2013 05:45 PM




                                                                                                              743

                                                                                                              727
                                                                                                                16
                                          4
                                          0
                                          4




                                                                                       Left Peds
                   6TH ST




                                                                                         34

                                                                                         33
                                                              Cars




                                                                                           1
                    26

                    26
                      0




                                                              Heavy Vehicles
                  Out




                                                                                                     Total
                                    3
                                    0
                                    3




                                                                                                     1502

                                                                                                     1460
                                                                                                        42
                                                                                              14

                                                                                              14
                                                                                               0
                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                3 151    42    4
                                                                0    0    0    0
                                                                3 151    42    4


                                                             158     200         358
                                                                1      0           1
                                                             159     200         359
                                                            Out     In         Total
                                                             SOUTH ST
                                                                    Tri-State Traffic Data, Inc.
                                                                               www.TSTData.com
Location:New Castle County, DE                                                                                                                                  File Name            : DD0508-1
Intersection: 6th St / South St                                                                                                                                 Site Code            : 00000000
Date: Wednesday, May 8, 2013                                                                                                                                    Start Date           : 5/8/2013
Counter:RZ                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :3


                         SOUTH ST                     6TH ST                                                    SOUTH ST                                     6TH ST
                        Southbound                      Westbound                                                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                             App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       0       6    60     1       67    13   1    1    2                               17          2       5      0      0           7        0       1        0     0           1         92
  07:30 AM       0       7    89     0       96    20   1    0    0                               21          2        8     0      0         10         0       1        0     0           1        128
  07:45 AM       0       6 107       1      114    22   0    0    0                               22          3        6     0      0          9         0       1        2     0            3        148
  08:00 AM       2       7    69     0       78    22   0    2    0                               24          0        6     0      1          7         1       0        1     0           2        111
 Total Volume    2     26 325        2      355    77   2    3    2                               84          7       25     0      1         33         1       3        3     0           7        479
% App. Total         0.6     7.3   91.5    0.6               91.7     2.4    3.6     2.4                   21.2   75.8        0      3                 14.3   42.9    42.9       0
       PHF          .250   .929    .759   .500   .779        .875    .500   .375    .250        .875       .583   .781     .000   .250      .825       .250   .750    .375    .000      .583         .809
       Cars            2     26     319      2    349          74       2      3       2          81          7     25        0      1        33          1      3       3       0         7          470
    % Cars           100    100    98.2    100   98.3        96.1     100    100     100        96.4        100    100        0    100       100        100    100     100       0       100         98.1
 Heavy Vehicles
 % Heavy Vehicles     0       0    1.8      0    1.7          3.9      0      0        0         3.6          0       0      0      0           0        0       0        0     0           0         1.9

                                                                                             SOUTH ST
                                                                                     Out        In    Total
                                                                                      102        349    451
                                                                                         3         6      9
                                                                                      105        355    460


                                                                                       2   26              319    2
                                                                                       0     0                6   0
                                                                                       2   26              325    2
                                                                                   Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                        11

                                        11
                                         0



                                                     3
                                                     0
                                                     3




                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                     Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                            77

                                                                                                                                            74


                                                                                                                                                           335

                                                                                                                                                           329

                                                                                                                                                            6TH ST
                                                                                                                                             3




                                                                                                                                                              6

                                                                                                 North
                                                                3
                                                                0
                                                                3
                                                 Peds Right Thru
                                          7
                                          0
                                          7




                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                                     84

                                                                                                                                                                     81
                                                          1
                                                          0
                                                          1




                                                                                                                                         Left Peds




                                                                                   Cars
                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                    6TH ST




                                                                                   Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             3
                                       4
                                       0
                                       4
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                           419

                                                                                                                                                           410
                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 2




                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        0  25     7    1
                                                                                        0    0    0    0
                                                                                        0  25     7    1


                                                                                       30      33                63
                                                                                         0      0                 0
                                                                                       30      33                63
                                                                                     Out     In               Total
                                                                                      SOUTH ST
                                                                    Tri-State Traffic Data, Inc.
                                                                               www.TSTData.com
Location:New Castle County, DE                                                                                                                                  File Name            : DD0508-1
Intersection: 6th St / South St                                                                                                                                 Site Code            : 00000000
Date: Wednesday, May 8, 2013                                                                                                                                    Start Date           : 5/8/2013
Counter:RZ                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :4

                         SOUTH ST                     6TH ST                                                    SOUTH ST                                     6TH ST
                        Southbound                      Westbound                                                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                             App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM       0     10     36     0       46    67   3     7   1                               78          4       17     1      0         22         0       5        2     0            7        153
  04:30 PM       0     11     38     0       49    59   0     0   0                               59          6       18     0      0         24         0       0        0     0          0         132
  04:45 PM       0       8    40     0       48    75   0     1   5                               81          2       13     0      2         17         0       2        1     2          5         151
  05:00 PM       1       9    32     0       42    75   2     2   1                              80           3       10     0      0         13         0       2        2     0          4         139
 Total Volume    1     38 146        0      185 276     5    10   7                             298          15       58     1      2         76         0       9        5     2         16         575
% App. Total         0.5   20.5   78.9      0                92.6     1.7    3.4     2.3                   19.7   76.3      1.3    2.6                    0   56.2    31.2    12.5
       PHF          .250   .864   .913   .000    .944        .920    .417   .357    .350        .920       .625   .806     .250   .250      .792       .000   .450    .625    .250      .571         .940
       Cars            1     38    139      0     178         272       5     10       7         294         15     58        1      2        76          0      9       5       2        16          564
    % Cars           100    100   95.2      0    96.2        98.6     100    100     100        98.7        100    100      100    100       100          0    100     100     100       100         98.1
 Heavy Vehicles
 % Heavy Vehicles     0      0    4.8       0    3.8          1.4      0      0        0         1.3          0       0      0      0           0        0       0        0     0           0         1.9

                                                                                             SOUTH ST
                                                                                     Out        In    Total
                                                                                      335        178    513
                                                                                         4         7     11
                                                                                      339        185    524


                                                                                       1   38              139    0
                                                                                       0     0                7   0
                                                                                       1   38              146    0
                                                                                   Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                       23

                                       23
                                        0



                                                     5
                                                     0
                                                     5




                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                    Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                           276

                                                                                                                                           272




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                           170

                                                                                                                                                           163

                                                                                                                                                            6TH ST
                                                                                                                                             4




                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                 North
                                                                9
                                                                0
                                                                9
                                                 Peds Right Thru
                                            16

                                            16
                                             0




                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM
                                          In




                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                                   298

                                                                                                                                                                   294
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                         Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                      4




                                                                                   Cars
                                   6TH ST




                                                                                                                                           10

                                                                                                                                           10




                                                                                   Heavy Vehicles
                                                                                                                                             0
                                      7
                                      0
                                      7
                                  Out




                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                    2
                                                    0
                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                           468

                                                                                                                                                           457
                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 7




                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        1  58    15    2
                                                                                        0    0    0    0
                                                                                        1  58    15    2


                                                                                       48      76               124
                                                                                         0      0                 0
                                                                                       48      76               124
                                                                                     Out     In               Total
                                                                                      SOUTH ST
