                                      Route 250
                                    Corridor Study
                                 Technical Appendices



Appendix   Description
  A        Public Meetings ­ Presentations and Public Comments

  B        Town of Penfield Land Use Analysis: A Component of the
           NYS Route 250 Corridor Study
  C        Existing Traffic Data ­ Intersection Counts
  D        Signal Warrant Analysis Studies ­ Town of Penfield
  E        Level of Service Definitions ­ Signalized Intersections
  F        Existing Peak Hour Level of Service Worksheets
  G        Travel Demand Volume Summaries (PM Peak Hour) ­ GTC Model
  H        Future 2025 Peak Hour Level of Service Worksheets
  I        Opinions of Probable Cost - Worksheets
Route 250 Corridor Study                                       October 2008 Final Report




                                      Appendix A:
                  Public Meetings ­ presentations and Public Comments
                Route 250 Corridor Study
             April 24, 2007 Public Meeting




      Presentation Outline

       > Project Introduction
       > Study Corridor Transportation
         Characteristics
       > Study Corridor Planning Characteristics
       > Preliminary Findings
       > Next Steps
       > Public Comments

2   Route 250 Corridor Study        4/24/07




      Introduction

       > Study Sponsors
              · Project funded through Genesee Transportation
                Council's (GTC) Unified Planning Work Program
                (UPWP).
              · Steering committee consisting of representatives
                from the Town of Victor, Town of Perinton, Village
                of Fairport, Town of Penfield, Town of Webster,
                Village of Webster, GTC, NYSDOT, Monroe County
                DOT, and Monroe County Planning.



3   Route 250 Corridor Study        4/24/07




                                                                     1
      Introduction

       > Purpose of Meeting
              ·      Introduce the project to the public
              ·      Report on information collected to date
              ·      Overview of next steps
              ·      Gather feedback from public on corridor issues,
                     opportunities and ideas




4   Route 250 Corridor Study              4/24/07




      Introduction

       >        Study Purpose
                     The purpose of this study is to:
                       ·     Develop a long range plan for the Route 250
                            corridor that addresses transportation needs locally
                            and regionally
                       · Present and future congestion problems, future
                            growth, roadway improvements, access
                            management strategies, and auto, truck, transit,
                            bicycle, and pedestrian solutions will all be
                            addressed.
                       · Create an implementation strategy for the
                            recommended solutions including possible grants or
                            alternative funding strategies.



5   Route 250 Corridor Study              4/24/07




      Introduction

    Study Area:
    Rte. 250 from Route 96 in
    Perinton to it's northern
    terminus at Lake Road in
    Webster




6   Route 250 Corridor Study              4/24/07




                                                                                   2
      Introduction

        > Schedule and Work Effort
     Task                                                     November December   January   February       March   April   May   June   July


     Study Coordination
      Steering Committee Meetings                                1                                     2           3             4             5

      Public Meetings
     Development of Study Goals and Objectives
     Existing and Future Base Conditions
      a. Review of Existing Data/Reports
      b. Peak Hour Data Collection
      c. Daily Traffic Data Collection
      d. Corridor Inventory
      e. Forecast of 2026 Base Condition
      f. Transportation Analysis
      g. Existing Conditions Memo
      h. Future Year Conditions Memo
     Define Specific Existing and Potential Future Problems
     Develop Initial Set of Alternative Actions
     Alternatives Analysis
     Draft Recommendations
     Plan Recommendations/Report




7   Route 250 Corridor Study                                           4/24/07




      Introduction

        > Where we are:
                   · Prepared project statement, goals and objectives
                   · Have completed collecting existing information
                     (traffic, accidents, permit activity, land use,
                     zoning)
                   · Reviewed existing policies (comprehensive plan,
                     zoning, subdivision regulations)
                   · Have begun assessing future conditions (build out,
                     future traffic volumes, operations, etc)



8   Route 250 Corridor Study                                           4/24/07




    Study Corridor Transportation Characteristics


        > Study Corridor Transportation
          Characteristics Assessed
                   ·          Highway Geometry and Function
                   ·          Traffic Volumes
                   ·          Access
                   ·          Safety
                   ·          Public Transit
                   ·          Pedestrian Accommodations
                   ·          Bicycle Facilities


9   Route 250 Corridor Study                                           4/24/07




                                                                                                                                                   3
10   Route 250 Corridor Study   4/24/07




11   Route 250 Corridor Study   4/24/07




12   Route 250 Corridor Study   4/24/07




                                          4
     Study Corridor Traffic Characteristics




13   Route 250 Corridor Study   4/24/07




     Study Corridor Traffic Characteristics




14   Route 250 Corridor Study   4/24/07




     Study Corridor Traffic Characteristics




15   Route 250 Corridor Study   4/24/07




                                              5
     Study Corridor Planning Characteristics

        > Study Corridor Planning Characteristics
               ·      Land Use
               ·      Zoning
               ·      Development Pressures/Concerns
               ·      Long-Range Planning




16   Route 250 Corridor Study         4/24/07




     Study Corridor Planning Characteristics




17   Route 250 Corridor Study         4/24/07




     Study Corridor Planning Characteristics




18   Route 250 Corridor Study         4/24/07




                                                       6
     Study Corridor Planning Characteristics




19   Route 250 Corridor Study                             4/24/07




     Study Corridor Planning Characteristics

         >        Building Permit Activity (2000-2005)
       Single Family Residential      2000       2001       2002       2003       2004        2005     Total   Percent
           Town of Webster             240        227        282        356        272         233     1,610     42%
          Village of Webster            0          1          26        11           0          0       38        1%
           Town of Penfield            169        137        123        125        100         117      771      20%
           Town of Perinton            165        122        144        122         66         60       679      18%
           Village of Fairport          5          3           2         4           1          1       16        0%
             Town of Victor            135        150        125        104        138         68       720      19%
                  Total                714        640        702        722        577         479     3,834    100%

               Commercial             2000       2001       2002       2003       2004        2005     Total   Percent
            Town of Webster             7          2          1          0         18           3       31       10%
           Village of Webster           0          0          0          0          0           0        0       0%
            Town of Penfield           36          3         54         46         34          21      194       64%
           Town of Perinton             0          4          2          6          7           2       21       7%
           Village of Fairport          0          0          0          0          0           0        0        0%
             Town of Victor            12          4         36          0          3           4       59       19%
                  Total                55         13         93         52         62          30      305      100%
     Source: Genesee/Finger Lakes Regional Planning Council, Land Use Monitoring Reports, 1999-2005.



20   Route 250 Corridor Study                             4/24/07




        Preliminary Findings

         >        Traffic Flow
         >        Traffic Operations
         >        Traffic Safety
         >        Public Transit & Pedestrian Accommodations
         >        Bicycle Accommodations
         >        Land Use Concerns




21   Route 250 Corridor Study                             4/24/07




                                                                                                                         7
       Preliminary Findings

        > Traffic Flow
               · Route 250 used to access arterial spine routes
                 and commercial centers
               · Route 250 primarily serves the corridor as a major
                 north-south route.
               · Traffic growth mirrors building permit activity ­
                 higher in Webster and Victor.
               · Driveway densities- approximately 20 per mile on
                 average ­ 15/mile in towns, 40/mile in villages



22   Route 250 Corridor Study                    4/24/07




       Preliminary Findings

        >        Traffic Operations
               · Route 250 Peak Hour most
                 congested signalized intersections
                 are:
                     -      Route 441
                     -      Whitney Road
                     -      Church Street
                     -      Route 31
                     -      Route 286
        >        Other Traffic Disruptions
                     -      Lift bridge
                     -      Railroad crossings



23   Route 250 Corridor Study                    4/24/07




       Preliminary Findings

        >        Traffic Safety (2001-2003)
               · 660 total accidents, entire
                  corridor
               · Four fatalities on corridor
                 - Atlantic Avenue (2)
                 - Route 31 (1)
                 - Between Woodcliff Dr and
                     Garnsey Rd (1)
               · 15 pedestrian/bicycle
                  accidents


24   Route 250 Corridor Study                    4/24/07




                                                                      8
       Preliminary Findings

      >Accident Rate on Route 250 lower than
      the state average
      >High Accident Locations
               ­   Route 441
               ­   Route 31
               ­   Garnsey Road
               ­   Ayrault Road
               ­   Plank Road
               ­   Route 250 between Post office and Target Signal

25   Route 250 Corridor Study            4/24/07




       Preliminary Findings

        > Public Transit Service
               · No continuous service on Route 250
               · Service limited to commuter hours with 30
                 to 45 minute service between each bus.
        > Pedestrian Accommodations
               · Sidewalks in villages and commercial
                 concentrations ­ not totally continuous
               · Pedestrian signals and crosswalks at most
                 major signals
               · Wide shoulders provided in most of corridor




26   Route 250 Corridor Study            4/24/07




       Preliminary Findings

        > Bicycle Accommodations
               ­ Overall good rideabililty
               ­ Fairport ­ rideability decreased by:
                  · On-street parking and lack of shoulders
                  · Narrow street width
                  · Railroad crossing




27   Route 250 Corridor Study            4/24/07




                                                                     9
       Preliminary Findings

        > Land Use
                     ·      Victor,Webster & Penfield Commercial
                            Development
                     ·      Macedon Commercial Development
                     ·      Webster Residential Development
                     ·      Agricultural Land Protection ­ Penfield




28   Route 250 Corridor Study              4/24/07




       Next Steps

        > Incorporate your comments
        > Build out analysis
               ­ Land use
               ­ Preservation programs
        > Future traffic
        > Alternative Solutions



29   Route 250 Corridor Study              4/24/07




       Public Comments

                                          Your:
                                        QUESTIONS
                                        ISSUES /CONCERNS
                                        IDEAS
                                        THOUGHTS
                                        OPPORTUNITIES



30   Route 250 Corridor Study              4/24/07




                                                                      10
                                Thank You



31   Route 250 Corridor Study       4/24/07




                                              11
            MEETING TITLE     Route 250 Public Information Meeting
            DATE AND TIME     April 24, 2007 7pm
                ATTENDEES     FRA Presented:
                                Steve Aldrich, Project Manager
                                Tara Boggio, Senior Planner
            ORGANIZED BY       Tara H. Boggio, AICP

Public Meeting Attendees
Doug Fox                               Penfield Town Hall
Ed Sexton                              1880 Salt Road, 14450
William Vendd, Jr.                     1267 Webster Road, 14580
Bob Scholl                             4 Burncoat Way, Pittsford 14534
Jim Mulley                             Penfield Town Hall
Gary Graty                             Lincoln Road, Walworth
Keith Gilliland                        1260 Route 250, Penfield
Debbie Drane
Phil.M. Gray                           200 Monterey Road, Rochester, 14618
Scott Leathersich                      MCDOT
Dimitri Stztanou
Mark Uhl                               1276 Webster Fairport Road
Ed Lindskovy                           18 High School Drive, 14526
Commisso                               1742 Route 250, Penfield, 14526
Kim Kinsella                           Town of Victor, 85 East Main Street, Victor, 14564
Rick & Audrey Seibert                  4508 Nine Mile Pt., Fairport
Fritz May                              209 S. Main Street, Fairport, 14450
Bill & Dolores Smith                   1726 Nin Mile Pt. Rd., Penfield, 14526
Linda Kohl                             Town of Penfield, Town Council
George Wiedemer                        Town Supervisor, Penfield
Frances Sexton                         1880 Salt Road, Fairport, 14450
Larry Grossman                         1801 Route 250, Penfield
Phyllis Ely                            26 Thorntree Circle, Penfield
Maggy                                  Post Papers
Jim Laudani                            1161 Webster Road, 14580


Public Meeting Content
A copy of the presentation given is attached for reference.



Questions and Comments
1)     Q: Why is the 250 corridor called an "urban" road?
       A: The census defines areas according to population and density as urban or rural,
       then the roadways that fall within such areas are also classified accordingly. It's mostly done to help
       assign funding (Scott Leathersich)



                                                                                                     Revision 07.03.19
2)   Q: The timeframe examined for accident rates is flawed. There have been 3 fatalities in the last 2 years
     within 50 yards of each other just south of the 286 intersection with Rte. 250. And at least 45 cars leave
     the road in the winter. It's not an intersection, but rather a curve in the road.
     A: Steve Aldrich explained the limitation of the available accident data, but said we would look at that
     section of roadway to see if any information could be provided.


3)   Q: Why did no one talk about the commercial truck traffic on Route 250? Near Plank and Marchner there
     are trucks all day long.
     A: Information was obtained about vehicle classification, but was not reviewed during this meeting. Steve
     also mentioned that since Route 250 is a state roadway, trucks could not be banned from using the road.


4)   Q: The biggest issue is the stop and go traffic associated with commercial activities...all the turning is what
     causes the danger on the roadway? Can't the commercial developments be stopped or limited.
     A: The corridor does serve several commercial centers. Land use planning takes the role of determining
     how much more commercial can/should go into the corridor. Part of this study will assess current zoning
     and make recommendations for potential changes.


5)   Q: You mentioned there was no north/south alternative to Route 250 but there is ­ Salt Road to Turk Hill.
     A: Steve replied that what he said is there is no other uninterrupted north-south alternative. People can
     take the expressway system or a series of other roads to go from the same origin to destination, but Route
     250 is unique in running the full distance, directly.


6)   Q: Don't make Route 250 4 lanes ­ it will just invite more traffic, more speeders, and create more
     problems.
     A: Steve replied that we aren't to the point of making any recommendations about capacity expansion;
     however, in many locations along Route 250 the existing volumes are nearing levels that could justify a 4-
     lane cross section, particularly at key intersections.


7)   Q: Need better visibility approaching businesses ­ drivers have to make fast stops/movements when they
     sneak up on a business.
     A: Improved signage can be considered.


8)   Q: What was the accident rate at 441/250 BEFORE the improvements were made because it seems to have
     gotten worse, not better?
     A: That information was not part of our analysis, but information could be requested by the State DOT if so
     desired.


9)   Q: The 55mph area (in Penfield) is too fast and it's not fair that when it was a concern for children playing it
     wasn't considered being reduced but that if it suits commercial needs it would be considered.
     A: No response.




                                                                                                    Revision 07.03.19
10)   Q: How many of the building permits shown in the table actually fall within the corridor?
      A: Tara explained that the data is only for the entire municipality, we do not have the information to break it
      down by what is in versus outside the study corridor. We are making some assumptions about how much
      development has taken place within each municipality that could impact the corridor, just to assess a trend.


11)   Q: The YMCA traffic is more significant than even a commercial business ­ it's impossible to get out of there
      during peak hours.
      A: FRA has conducted signal warrants, and although the YMCA driveway does not currently warrant a signal,
      it could in the future if volumes change or if it's tied to another business.


12)   Q: How is the preservation of property values incorporated into this study?
      A: Steve responded that they really aren't other than preserving the function of Route 250 which should
      help retain property values.


13)   Q: Given the current accident rates and volumes, would you say this corridor is in trouble?
      A: Steve replied no. He stated that there are many similar corridors that have much worse accident
      problems, and access problems. However, the point of this study is to make sure that as development
      continues, and volumes increase, that the road maintains, or improves, existing levels of function and safety.


14)   Q: Penfield has 3.5 miles of 55mph roadway, any sense of what the impact reducing the speed limit to 45
      would have on the traffic flow and safety?
      A: Both Steve and Bob Scholl mentioned that they could not answer that without doing an analysis of it.


15)   Q: You can't get people to just drive better, and that's the real problem. But if you give them more roadway
      to drive on, it just gives them more space to do more dumb things
      A: No response.


16)   Q: There really is nothing you can do to fix the high accident locations.
      A: Bob Scholl responded that a study like this works to keep more problems from happening in the future by
      putting in place better access control and modifying laws/regulations for development.


17)   Q: What makes Route 250 such a major thoroughfare?
      A: The high speed limit in some areas is attracting trucks, plus it is the most direct route from point to point.


18)   Q: Isn't this study all about identifying what areas can be commercialized.
      A: No, while some future land use guidance may be provided during this study, the goal of this study is not
      to decide future land uses. That is what a municipality's comprehensive plan does.




                                                                                                      Revision 07.03.19
Public Comment Form Responses

1.    Identify traffic and safety concerns along the Route 250 Corridor.
           Speed and truck traffic.
           High speed rate from Webster to Penfield stretch, too fast to turn into businesses safely in this
           area (I avoid 250 because of this).
           The business malls north of 441 on both sides of Route 250 - - the road is quite wide which
           helps the driver entering and leaving the malls ­ not at early and 5 pm traffic like at quieter
           times. It can be quite awkward determining when it is safe to enter 250 from e.g., the Rite Aid
           drugstore. You have several lanes, cars all traveling and I personally only turn right ­ wouldn't
           dream of turning left, at any egress point, except when traffic is light, otherwise, for me it can
           be dangerous.

2.    Identify unique areas along Route 250 that you would like to see preserved or protected.
           The areas of wooded lots, absolutely, keep pristine, e.g. Harris Park area near Whitney Road.
           Northeast Penfield wetlands and agriculture Turk Hill farming areas, Jensen area.
           Wooded areas and wetlands.

3.    Identify elements of the Route 250 corridor that you feel need to change.
           Left turn lanes at all major intersections.
           Atlantic/250 intersection zoning needs to be consistent; slow down speeds.
           The area I would like to comment on is already changed. The locations of Grossman
           Wickham's farm store and YMCA. I drove by from Sweets Corner and thought "this is the
           beginning of strip development". There was car traffic at Grossmans and the parking lot at
           the YMCA was absolutely full and lights all over the building. The landscaping will help a little
           but there not sufficient trees, shrubs. It looks absolutely like strip development. I'm glad I
           don't live in that area. Please don't build or expand any more ­ the rural look is gone forever!

4.    Where do you live?
          Town of Penfield (all three respondents)

5.    When do you use Route 250 the most?
          Rest of the weekday (all three respondents)
          Weekend (two respondents)

6.    If public transit was more available along Route 250, would you use it, and if so, where would you
      go and how often?
            Probably not because I carry a lot of materials with me.
            No
            Presently, I have a Honda Accord and get pretty good mileage. So public transportation is not
            appealing to me at this time. I could consider public transportation to reach Eastview Mall or
            travel to the city.




                                                                                            Revision 07.03.19
7.     Other Comments?

             If you would kindly consider my comments, it would be most appreciated. Frances Sexton
             377-7550.
             Provisions for wildlife to cross the corridor.




Next Meeting
The public was told the next public meeting would likely be in late June to discuss the build out scenario and
recommendations.



It was my intention that these minutes reflect the general discussion during the meeting. Please contact me
regarding any additions, deletions or changes to these minutes.




                                                                                                     Revision 07.03.19
            MEETING TITLE     Route 250 Draft Corridor Study Presentation
            DATE AND TIME     June 25, 2008 7PM
                  ATTENDEES   See Attached Sign In Sheet


            ORGANIZED BY      Stephen E. Aldrich, PE, PTOE

Public Meeting Content
A copy of the presentation given is attached for reference.

Verbal Public Comments made after Presentation
1)     Why can't we get DOT to lower speed limits? I wrote a letter about the area near Whalen Road, which has a
       speed limit of 55 mph.

2)     The NB left turn from Route 250 onto Whalen Road is poorly timed. Roundabouts will confuse elderly drivers.
       We need better enforcement (of speeds). Route 250 only has 3 feet on the shoulder for bikes. This is not
       safe.

3)     (Center) Left turn lane from Whalen Road to Route 441 is needed to get into the strip mall areas. .

4)     Roundabouts ­ people feel that they are dangerous.

5)     I don't think roundabouts are a good idea.

6)     There are not many ways to get around. There are few alternative routes. Preserve open space to minimize
       additional traffic.
7)     New driveway and highway design not meant for trucks.

8)     Curbs make highway hard to access.

9)     Route 250 needs a parallel access road to service commercial areas.

10)     Don't increase bike lanes because it is not safe on that road (Route 250). Atlantic Avenue needs traffic
       signal. Afraid that tax dollars are not going to the right things. Route 441 east from Route 250 ­ speed limits
       are lower ­ 40 mph from Route 441 to Wegmans ­ reduced to 35 mph. There are 10 access driveways on
       Route 250 between Route 441 and Whalen Road without any lights (traffic signals). Especially coming out of
       the post office (is a problem).Atlantic Avenue also has a lower speed limit; why is Route 250 55mph?

11)    On Nine Mile Point Road, there are two houses to the south of Target. These properties shouldn't stay
       residential, because you can't even get out of the driveways (due to traffic). The properties should be
       business non-retail.




August 18, 2008                                         1
12)    There are no sidewalks in the area near Target. Driveways are unsafe. Bicycling is impossible. Why do people
       have to die before changes are made? People speed coming out of roundabouts to make up time lost at
       roundabout.

13)    What happens at roundabouts when people are coming into it at 55 mph?

14)    Why can't speed limits be reduced?

15)    I like access management. At Atlantic Avenue, people use the shoulder to turn right. This becomes unsafe.
       Turk Hill Road has similar characteristics (to Route 250).

16)    Turning lanes on Route 250 at Atlantic Avenue would help. We should open up to business non-retail.

17)    Telephone pole at Penfield Center Road restricts sight for cars turning left onto Route 250.


Next Meeting
Steering Committee Meeting ­ Date TBD

It was my intention that these minutes reflect the general discussion during the meeting. Please contact me
regarding any additions, deletions or changes to these minutes.




August 18, 2008                                        2
             Route 250 Corridor Study
           Presentation of Draft Report Findings
                      June 25, 2008




      Study Presentation

      · Review of Study Objectives
      · Summary of Findings
              ­ Traffic/Transportation
              ­ Multimodal Transportation
              ­ Land Use/Zoning
      · Future Forecast
              ­ Land Use Projections ­ Buildout Analysis
              ­ Resulting Traffic Growth/Operations
      · Development of Study Recommendations
              ­ Access Management/Policy Recommendations
              ­ Physical Improvements


2   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




      Study Objectives

      Develop a long range plan for the corridor that:
      · Addresses the transportation needs based on local concerns
      · Identifies current and future congestion problems,
      · Assesses potential effects of future growth,
      · Identifies potential roadway improvement needs,
      · Develops access management strategies, and
      · Assesses the needs for auto, truck, transit, bicycle, and
        pedestrian improvements



3   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




                                                                     1
      Summary of Findings

      Traffic/Transportation
      ·Daily traffic ­ 5,130 up to 18,900 vehicles per day
      ·Average driveway spacing - 41 driveways/mile (250-265 feet spacing)
      ·Existing PM Peak Hour Congestion
          > Whitney & Route 441 (Level of Service D)

      ·Travel demand model used to evaluate external growth pressures
      ·2025 PM Peak Hour Congestion
          > Whitney & Route 441 (Level of Service E)
          > Atlantic Avenue (Level of Service F)




4   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




      Summary of Findings

      Multimodal Transportation
      ·Transit Service Gaps ­
          > Route 31 to Church Street
          > Whalen Road to Lake Road

      ·Transit frequency and service ­ mostly commuter focused
      ·Sidewalk network developed in villages and commercial centers ­
        Garnsey Road to North of Whalen Road - gaps remain
      ·Bicycle rideability ­ rated as good for most of corridor. Wide shoulders and
        generally safe road are factors




5   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




      Summary of Findings

      Land Use/Zoning
      ·Future population growth forecast ­ Town of Webster fastest growth
      ·Future employment growth forecast
          > Route 96 corridor
          > Route 441
          > Route 31
      ·Vacant and Underutilized Land ­ More in Penfield ­ highest potential for
        unanticipated growth
          > 85% of total underutilized land
          > 52% of total vacant land




6   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




                                                                                      2
      Future Forecast

      · Incorporated land use recommendations from Town
        of Penfield 250 Land Use Study
      · Completed build-out analysis to assess growth
        potential
      · Traffic growth to year 2025
      · Included recent major developments:
                  ­ Wal-Mart and Lowes (Route 31 in Macedon)
                  ­ High Point (Route 96 in Victor)
                  ­ Victor Crossing (Route 96 in Victor)




7   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




      Future Forecast
      · Utilized real property data to
        identify vacant and
        underutilized properties
      · Built out per existing zoning
      · Field check/ municipal leaders
        verified
      · Convert acreage to households
        or employees
      · Units/square footage used to
        estimate new trips


8   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




      Study Recommendations

      Recommendations grouped into
      Corridor-wide applications
      · Future enhancement of public transit to make more connections within
        corridor
      · Access Management Overlay District
      Municipality-Specific Recommendations
      · Route 250 extension into Eastview
      · Route 250 at Garnsey Road = Add SB right-turn lane
      · Route 250 at Sweet's Corner (Penfield) ­ roundabout or signal with shared
        access on west side
      · Route 250 at Atlantic Avenue (Penfield) ­ NB/SB left-turn lanes or
        roundabout
      · Improvement to existing at-grade rail crossing (Webster)
      · Land use/rezoning recommendations



9   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




                                                                                    3
       Study Recommendations

     Physical Improvements
                     Sweets Corner




10   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




       Study Recommendations

     Physical Improvements                                  New Connection
                                                            to Eastview Mall




            Improved rail crossing
                 in Webster



11   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




       Access Management Recommendations

           Overlay District - Establishing consistent guidelines for
           implementation across the corridor
             > Corner Clearance ­ keeping driveways from "crowding"
               intersections
             > Driveway Spacing ­ variable depending
               on use and traffic intensity
             > Clearance Zone ­ preserve future land
               for ROW expansion




12   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




                                                                               1
       Access Management Recommendations


           Overlay District                     -
                                  Establishing consistent guidelines for
           implementation across the corridor
             > Sign and Landscaping Standards
             > Pedestrian Accommodations
             > Subdivision regulation requirements
                   ­ Focus on access planning
                   ­ Includes interparcel connections




13   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




       Access Management Recommendations

             Regulation of access points (driveways, side streets)
             Control the location, spacing and frequency of access




                              +                              Cost Varies
             Reduces crashes                                 Often opposed by
             Improves capacity                                 those who currently
             Helps balance                                     have access
                   mobility/access                           Inconveniences some
             Benefits pedestrians                             drivers


14   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




       Next Steps

       ·Two-week comment period for Draft Report
       ·Comments from tonight's meeting to be included in Final
        Report
       ·Comments may require modification to Draft Report
       ·Final Report to be prepared including a review by the
        Route 250 Steering Committee
       ·Final Report to be provided on-line and at the offices of
        each municipality
       ·Implementation ­ up to each municipality to incorporate
        recommendation into their review processes


15   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




                                                                                     5
                                        Thank You!
                    In Addition to Your Comment Forms
                Your Questions/ Comments Are Appreciated


                           Please send your E-Mail comments to:
                                  planning@penfield.org




16   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




         We Need Your
            Input

17   Route 250 Corridor Study ­ Draft Report Presentation




                                                                  6
                  Route 250 Corridor Study
   Summary of Comments Received - Public Meeting June 25, 2008



Name             Date        Comments (Summarized)
                             Whalen Road has been a bottleneck for years. We have tried to
Ron Spanos       6/25/2008   get a left-turn signal going north
                             Roundabouts should not be considered. They are dangerous,
Ron Spanos       6/25/2008   especially for the elderly.
Michael Quinn    6/26/2008   Route 25 is not dangerous for bicycles
Michael Quinn    6/26/2008   The speed limit should be lower (45 mph)
Ed Wright        6/27/2008   Sensor-activated left-turn signals need at Whalen Rd
Ed Wright        6/27/2008   The Route 96 connection is a good idea
Ed Wright        6/27/2008   Roundabouts are not a good idea
                             Will the ROW increase, and how will this be accomplished?
Audrey Siebert 6/30/2008
                             This does not seem necessary
Matt DiPietro     7/3/2008   Visual obstructions should be removed at Woodcliff Drive
Matt DiPietro     7/7/2008   Add a traffic signal at Woodcliff Drive
Penfield Green
Initiative
                  7/9/2008 Multiple comments. See attached letter dated 7/9/08
Planning
Committee
Susan Floor       7/9/2008 Put traffic signal at Sweet Corner, and do not realign it.
Susan Floor       7/9/2008 Has concerns about a roundabout - it is confusing
                           Roundabout - snow removal concerns and will shift more truck
Susan Floor       7/9/2008
                           traffic to Salt Road
Susan Floor       7/9/2008 Penfield targeted for remedial actions.
July 9, 2008


Penfield Planning Department

Re: Route 250 Corridor Study, May 2008 draft

To Whom it May Concern:

The following is submitted as public comment in reference to the above study draft.

We feel the Route 250 Study has missed a unique opportunity to develop a transportation plan
which is not only forward thinking but absolutely essential in today's changing world, which
demands conservation and sensitivity to diminishing natural resources on the part of every citizen
and every municipality.

Recent studies have shown that "the transportation sector is the fastest growing carbon dioxide
source in the United States with emissions rates rising 2% per year." One of the most effective
ways to offset this effect is to encourage the use of bicycles and walking.

In its current form, the Route 250 Corridor Study is written as though motorists are the only users
of this road. Some references are made about accommodating pedestrians and cyclists, but it
appears no particular effort has been made on their behalf. Indeed, the ludicrous assumption that
Route 250 is bicycle and pedestrian friendly simply because it has shoulders betrays the naiveté
of this document.

In lieu of simply "considering" the needs of cyclists and pedestrians, we suggest the Town
establish and implement clear guidelines for providing safe access to all users, including people
with disabilities and (potentially) transit users. Penfield can do the job the right way now, or it
can waste taxpayer dollars in the future retrofitting these designs. Penfield's citizens are already
using bicycles to commute. How many more would do the same if they felt safe? How long will
it be before they demand this accessibility?

The use of the term "underutilized" to describe land that could be developed but has not implies
that developed land has more value than undeveloped land. By whose definition? Protecting
"underutilized" land as simply land would go a long way to truly "buffering" the Route 250
corridor. As it's written in the study, the "buffer zone" really is no more than a way to gently
integrate development into areas of Penfield that are now predominantly rural. This is nothing
more than a clever way to disguise sprawl. Shouldn't the intent of the zone be just the opposite: to
buffer our precious natural resources from encroachment by Route 250?

Regardless of whether they are fields, scrub or forests, these "underutilized' areas not only
provide habitat for wildlife and native flora and fauna, they are groundwater filters and
temperature regulators. Interrupting these areas disrupts pollination, seed dispersal and wildlife
migration and breeding. But most importantly, losing these areas means losing the heritage of
Penfield -- hardly a definition of planned progress.

In conclusion, it's our recommendation this plan not be accepted as currently written. It needs to
be reworked significantly to address the environmental issues/opportunities involved in defining
the future of the Route 250 corridor. To ignore these issues would be a failure to fulfill your
obligations to the residents of Penfield.
The Penfield Green Initiative would welcome the chance to discuss any of the ideas presented in
this response to the Study.

Chapter 1. Project Statement and Purpose
Overall, we challenge the basic assumptions underlying the report, that agricultural land and open
space is inherently under-utilized. Is commercial development the primary goal for Penfield?
Why do people move to Penfield? What is our ideal utilization...is it downtown Rochester?
Manhattan?

The consultant stated that 250 works today. We would like to suggest that for some traffic it does
not work today, Salt Road is taking increased heavy truck traffic as a bypass for busy 250. The
town highway department should be able to support that observation based on the increased road
repair and maintenance on Salt Road in the past few years. Does the town really want to divert
commercial traffic from 250 to residential/agricultural areas?

Additionally we have the following overall concerns:
 What is the impact of the study's recommendations on environmental considerations other
   than wetlands (e.g. habitat)? How do the recommendations mesh with Open Space Plan
   Update of March 2006?
 Study Objective A refers to addressing the quality of life in the community. How do the
   study recommendations respond to this objective?
 The report states that the study was done with the assistance of the County and the Genessee
   Transportation Council, but what is the source of that funding? Was there federal money for
   the study? Will there be federal money for Route 250 "improvements"?

Chapter 2, Part 1, Existing conditions
 Wetlands: The document states: "North of Plank Rd, there are some wetlands that may inhibit
   development" and "During the build out analysis, these environmental constraints were
   considered".
       o "May inhibit" and "environmental constraints were considered" are very broad terms.
            We would like specific information that the consultants considered and the specific area
            north of Plank that is referenced. Was DEC consulted for the build out analysis for this
            area? More importantly, it is most telling that the term environmental "constraints" is
            used, rather than environmental "assets". The focus of the report clearly seems sensitive
            to commercial development as opposed to the environment.
 Master Comprehensive Plan references as stated: "Each of the municipalities has a
   CURRENT comprehensive plan which lays the groundwork for future development...
       o Clearly, Penfield's comprehensive plan is not current and much in demographics, the
            environment, energy conservation and the economy has changed since the process for
            review of the comprehensive plan was initiated 10 yrs ago. Do the future projections
            do take into account the paradigm shift in all of the above aspects?
       o Even without taking into account current trends, protecting environmentally sensitive
            areas is the foundation of Penfield's Comprehensive Plan in each of the updates,
            therefore it needs to be a priority in any further development along the 250 Corridor.
            Therefore, further explanation is needed about how the goals and principles of the
            2000 Comprehensive Plan (in the process of being updated over the next 18 months),
            the 2007 Land Use Analysis and this 250 Corridor Study are to be coordinated.

    Setbacks and Buffers
       In any development along the Corridor, what are considered to be
        appropriate setbacks and buffers to provide "adequate visual and sound
        protection" as required in the Comprehensive Plan?
        Are there any proposed setbacks and buffers exceeding the "minimum" required
        in the Comprehensive Plan as is allowed "if, in the judgment of the Board
        or official having jurisdiction, it is deemed necessary to accommodate
        adequate buffering"?

  Penfield vacant and "underutilized" land
      The document states that Penfield has the most vacant and underutilized land and
      therefore the most opportunity for the creation of new businesses and therefore
      new jobs. Is this the direction the town has established?
     What is meant by "underutilized"? Is the goal for vacant land to create new
      businesses in Penfield or to protect our East Penfield rural and agricultural
      community as stated in the Comprehensive Plan?

  Approved and under construction projects
     Already in the immediate future, there will be 3 housing developments, a daycare
     a church, and a Walgreens. These are significant additions in the Penfield section
     of the corridor.

  Daily traffic volumes
     The information is from 2005 which is not useful information for projections.
     The intersection of 250 and 441 has one of the heaviest traffic volumes.
     Since 2005, the YMCA has been built and there are the above projects approved or
     under construction.
     Also there is no mention of the truck traffic that has increased on a parallel north
     south corridor ­ Salt/Carter Rd.
     An updated traffic study needs to be completed.

Accident History
     Information obtained from 2001-2003 ­ there are many new developments in the
     last 5 ­ 7 yrs. Highest rate then was in Penfield between Target signal and 441.
     Second highest rate was between 441 and Penbrooke Dr.
      The highest intersection accident rate was at 441 and 250. Although the intersection was
      improved in 2002, there have been new developments along
      the corridor and updated information is necessary.

  Pedestrian Accommodations
     Bike accessibility is ranked as "Good" along the corridor except in the Fairport village ­
     this is the most outrageous statement.
     No parent would consider the corridor as good for biking for their child; neither
     would any reasonable adult.
     Figure 23 is titled "Bike Rideability" ­ there is no such term in the dictionary nor
     is such a term used in the cycling industry. This suggests that there was no cycling
     expert consulted in the study as an expert would not have ranked the corridor as a viable
     bike route much less "good".
     Wide shoulders do not make a road safe for cycling. Drivers routinely use the shoulder as
     a passing lane on the right.
     If we are going to make 250 a more effective corridor, then it needs to be thought of as
     transportation for all: cars, cyclists and pedestrians. The cost of gas is shifting the trend of
       automobile reliance. More people are cycling as a means of transportation and not just for
       exercise and the love of cycling. The plan relies on old information and is not reflective of
       these shifting trends.
       Penfield can demonstrate leadership in true "Planned Progress" by proposing a green zone
       on either side of 250, planted with trees and fields to nurture the atmosphere. A lane
       widening through such an ecosystem could accommodate cycle and pedestrian traffic
       between Penfield and Webster. The zone itself would buffer surrounding neighborhoods
       from the noise of the highway, providing a pleasant park-like environment.

   Zoning
     The report states that in Penfield, the majority of the corridor consists of land zoned
     for residential and agricultural uses. The zoning classifications in the northernmost
     section of the corridor include Rural Agricultural. Closer to 441, there are
     commercially zoned areas.
      The report also states that the existing land in Penfield largely reflects current zoning in
      most areas.
      In what incidents, does the area not reflect current zoning?
      Is there any intent to change the current zoning to accommodate various kinds of
      development along the Penfield corridor? If so, would such changes violate the principles
      in the Comprehensive Plan or the Land Use Analysis?
      For that matter, are the two documents (Comprehensive Plan and Land Use Analysis)
      contradictory to each other?

Chapter 2, part 2, Existing Conditions

    We would like to see impact on habitats studied. For example, the town and state highway
    departments could provide some history of the dead deer carcasses removed for the road. We
    should take into consideration the damage the road is doing now to animal species.
    Again, we question the basic assumption that agricultural land and open space is inherently
    "underutilized". What is the desired maximum tax base, population, number of buildings for
    Penfield?
    Have the following data been adjusted to reflect current, changing economic conditions:
          projected population growth of towns;
          projected employment growth of each town; and
          projected growth of traffic?

    Given the current housing crisis - can the rate of projected housing growth be justified?
    Can builders/developers obtain financing to sustain project development?
    Does the plan take into consideration the shrinking number of miles driven in relation to the
    cost of gas?
    Does the plan consider restructuring of zoning to deal with the expense of driving?
    Have alternative and mass transit solutions been factored into the plan?
    Will the shrinking economy affect demand for new businesses?

Remediation
We respectfully recommend the following critical additions to the draft study:

    That the Planning Department review information from the National Complete Streets
    Coalition. This Coalition has developed a compelling case for roads that can be used by
    motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. These plans have been very successful at helping
    citizens use alternative modes of transportation. Recently, Buffalo's Common Council passed
    a complete streets ordinance. Penfield could be a leader in Monroe County by adopting this
    paradigm. More information can be found at www.completestreets.org
    That the traffic and accident data be updated to reflect current condition
    That future projections be revised to reflect current economic considerations


In short, Penfield has the most to lose if thoughtful planning is not done now. As our leaders, we
encourage you to take advantage of this opportunity to maintain the town's desirability as a
residential community with high standards, to guide development and preserve open space and
farmlands, to protect and promote continued economically viable agricultural operations within
the town, to preserve and protect the quality residential character of the town and to maintain the
high standards of quality of life that are expected by Penfield residents.

Thank you.

Penfield Green Initiative
Planning Committee

Mel Callan
Sue DeRosa
Susan Foor
Carole Hoffman
Robyn Miller
Georgena Terry
Route 250 Corridor Study                                        October 2008 Final Report




                                      Appendix B:
   Town of Penfield Land Use Analysis: A Component of the NYS Route 20 Corridor Study
  A Component of the NYS Rte. 250
          Corridor Study

                  FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT




September, 2008              1
Final Committee Report ­ September, 2008
                                       Table of Contents

Acknowledgments ....................................................................................3


Introduction .............................................................................................4


Corridor Segment Map ...........................................................................6


Segments:
    Northern Segment.............................................................................7


        North Central Segment ...................................................................11


        Central Segment .............................................................................14


        Proposed Hamlet Segment .............................................................18


        Penbrooke Drive Segment..............................................................22


        Southern Segment...........................................................................25




September, 2008                                        2
                           Acknowledgments



Land Use Advisory Committee

        Supervisor George Wiedemer, Chairman
        David Bay
        Clyde Benoy
        Larry Grossman
        Dr. Joyce McChesney
        Mohamed Razak
        Mark Rohlin
        Gary Smith
        Bill Vendel
        Dave Woodward



Staff

        Doug Fox, Dir. of Planning
        Jim Costello, Dir. of Developmental Services
        Stacey Decker, Planner
        Lorrie O'Dell, Clerk




September, 2008                            3
Introduction
The Town of Penfield is participating in a study of the Rte. 250 corridor that involves several
other municipalities. The overall study limits are from Lake Road in Webster to Rte. 96 in
Victor and involve the Towns of Webster, Penfield, Perinton and Victor, along with the villages
of Webster and Fairport. This corridor study will concentrate primarily on transportation
elements of the corridor, but will also include land use discussions for the municipalities.

Penfield has a long history of agriculture. In 1935, Penfield had over 400 family farms and
almost 20,000 acres were in agricultural production. Penfield was slow to grow until
connections to Rochester permitted easier and safer travel options, so the predominant
development up until post-World War II was to meet the needs of the sparse population of this
primarily agricultural community. During the 1950s and 1960s, development began to grow
substantially in the western portions of town, but the Rte. 250 corridor remained primarily rural.
This began changing in the 1970s and 1980s as exploding residential populations demanded
more goods and services. The 1990s saw the expansion of several large commercial plazas in
the Penfield Road/ Rte. 250 area and warranted a land use & access management planning effort
that paid off in 2001 with substantial improvements to the intersection and surrounding lands.

This corridor is not easy to characterize with a single description. However, the rural character
of much of the corridor remains one of the key focus points of this report. Most of the farmland
along the corridor is not farmer-owned, but is rented to farmers. This has been a growing trend,
as land costs escalate. There are several older farmhouses still standing along the corridor that
bring a sense of history to this increasingly busy State highway.

As Penfield has the most undeveloped land along the entire corridor, the Penfield Town Board
determined that establishment of a Land Use Advisory Committee (LUAC) would be the
appropriate approach to Penfield's section of the corridor. By Resolution No. 105, dated April 5,
2006, the LUAC was formed and charged with the analysis of existing land use patterns along
the corridor and making recommendations for appropriate land use considerations. There is a
good cross-section of Penfield reflected in the Committee's membership, including backgrounds
in farming, business, real estate and residential property owners.

The LUAC had its first meeting in May, 2006 and began its review of the corridor. There are
many factors that affect land uses and development patterns. These include environmental
sensitivity, such as woodlands and wetlands; infrastructure capacity, such as roadways and
sewers; and zoning compatibility. The LUAC's educational process on these and other factors
was aided by Staff input and technological tools such as Pictometry® and Geographic
Information System (GIS) mapping.

 The LUAC determined early on that public input was critical. A public information meeting
was held on September 25, 2006 and the LUAC heard a variety of positions on land uses and
patterns. Input from the meeting and subsequent written comments included requests for specific
property rezoning, opposition to any changes in zoning, concern with current excessive speeds
and volumes of traffic along the State highway, recommendations to include pedestrians &
bicycles in future planning and fear of future road widening detracting from the character of the


September, 2008                                    4
area. Following the public input process, the LUAC began discussions of the land uses in the
corridor. It became quickly apparent that the corridor within Penfield had many different
features that warranted separate consideration. The Committee broke the corridor down into
segments, each with its own individual character. Members continually focused on important
issues such as residential & rural character, natural settings, opportunities & functional
limitations and tried to establish a vision for each segment. These are more fully described in the
following sections of this report. The whole process resulted in an equitable analysis of land
uses, opportunities and issues along the corridor.

A major segment of NYS Route 250 with a 55 MPH speed limit is located in the northern and
central sections of Penfield. Based upon the land use recommendations contained in this report,
and the continuing development pressure in the corridor, the LUAC strongly recommends
consideration of a reduced speed limit along the sections now posted at 55 MPH.

The charge to the LUAC was to try to find a balance of land uses that is fair and impartial,
considers the needs of the community, identifies the challenges-both existing & future, and keeps
the focus on the character of each segment. It was not always an easy task and there was much
debate among committee members on several areas. But it was healthy debate and worthwhile
discussions that changed some minds, opened others and resulted in a report that presents a well
thought-out direction that preserves the integrity of the corridor, encourages creative approaches
to land use and provides a multi-faceted vision of the corridor for consideration by the Town
Board and the public.




September, 2008                                    5
Figure 1. Corridor segment map.




September, 2008                   6
Rte. 250 Corridor ­ Northern Segment

This segment of the Rte. 250 Corridor is populated with a mix of residential density development
and agricultural lands. It is the northern gateway to our Town and is in transition through past
rezoning actions and development. It is no longer the rural farm landscape that has dominated
this part of Penfield in the past, but it is also not blanketed with hundreds of homes. The
segment is bordered on the north by the Town of Webster. There are wetlands and woods in the
southeastern and southwestern portions of the segment and Limited Business (LB) commercial
(Harris Garden Center) & industrial uses (RG&E Operations Center) in the south-central portion
of the segment.

Vision:

As the Town's northern gateway, this area should present an attractive, well-planned
combination of quality residential development, natural features and agricultural heritage. As
previously noted, the area is in transition. The Town of Penfield Comprehensive Plan
recommended that with the proper infrastructure (primarily sanitary sewers), the area north of
Plank Road and west of Rte. 250 would be appropriate for residential densities of up to R-1-20
(20,000 sq. ft. lots) for single family homes. Since the adoption of that Plan, there have been
additional sewer capacity studies that have demonstrated some deficiencies in the Webster town
sewer system.

As of January, 2008, the Town of Penfield has been informed by Webster that the capacity
deficiencies have been corrected and the Town of Webster was welcoming additional sewer
connections from lands in Penfield, in this area.

The Land Use Advisory Committee (LUAC) recommends specific properties be considered for
an increase in density. These properties should only be considered for the recommended density
if there is some benefit(s) to the Town, such as achieving goals outlined in the Comprehensive
Plan. In addition, development of these properties with increased density should only be done
with proof of adequate sanitary sewer capacity, minimizing access to NYS Rte. 250 and
provision of internal connections for roads and utilities to other properties.

       Lands on the west side of Rte. 250, including 1213, 1229 and 1271 Fairport Nine Mile
       Point Road could be considered for higher density of two-to-four units per acre.

       Lands on the east side of Rte. 250, including 1210, 1250 and 1260 Fairport Nine Mile
       Point Road and also including 1300 Marchner Road could be considered for higher
       density of two-to-four units per acre. These lands should provide significant open space
       buffers to the east. The open space should also be considered for possible regional
       stormwater management areas.

Lands on the west side of Rte. 250, including 1155, 1161, 1169, 1209, 1221, 1225 and 1267
Fairport Nine Mile Point Road could be considered pre-existing, non-conforming lots within the
RA-2 zoning district.


September, 2008                                   7
The existing lands that are currently zoned Limited Business should remain with that
classification for the foreseeable future.

In the event that sewers become available to some or all of the included lands, it would seem
appropriate to cluster the lots on smaller lot sizes, keeping appropriate and attractive portions of
the property as open space, for buffering purposes or to maintain scenic views along the corridor.


Rural Character Preservation Goals:

To maintain rural density residential development and agricultural operations east and west of
those properties identified above, while permitting higher density to be clustered closer to the
Rte. 250 corridor. This will be a delicate balance to provide visual screening along Rte. 250
through the use of setbacks, berms and landscaping, while permitting higher density
development internally to these relatively large parcels and also providing significant open space
buffers to the remaining rural lands.

To maintain a natural appearance from the street, with adequate setbacks, street trees and
landscaping, as a component of any new development.

To provide substantial open space buffers east of any increased density development to those
rural lots along Marchner Road.


Environmental Goals:

To provide for flood storage for Four Mile Creek on the land area at the southeast corner of Rte.
250 and Marchner Road which should be set aside on the lower portions of the site.
Development of this property should be clustered, if possible to accomplish this goal.

To design stormwater management facilities in conformance with water quality goals of the
Town, County and State. Discharges to wetland areas should be specifically designed to
minimize impacts to the wetlands. Flood storage improvements should be considered for lands
within the Four Mile Creek watershed.


Development Goals:

To provide adequate separation from the roadway to preserve residential character and provide
scenic, natural views along the corridor. Additional right-of-way widths should be planned for
and obtained with new development, especially on all corners at the intersection of Marchner
Road and Rte. 250.

To enlist access management techniques for new development along Rte. 250, where access
should be minimized and inter-parcel connections should be encouraged.



September, 2008                                     8
To investigate capacity and access to sanitary sewers. Lands without sewer service should
maintain minimum lot sizes of one acre, to assure areas for future septic system expansion, when
needed.

To provide for internal road and utility connections between properties that could be considered
for future development. Care should be taken to avoid cut-through road connections that connect
Jackson Road with Rte. 250.

To provide densities along the State highway corridor that are consistent with development
densities in the adjacent Town of Webster and Village of Webster


Possible Incentives:

The use of Town Law §278 to cluster development should be encouraged, where sewers are
available. This helps minimize the amount of road and infrastructure installation and results in
additional greenspace, which may generate long term savings on maintenance to the
municipality.

The use of incentive zoning is also a possibility, to provide the necessary open space buffers
between the higher density areas along Rte. 250 from the more rural density and agricultural
lands, both east and west of the corridor.




September, 2008                                    9
Figure 2. Northern segment map.




September, 2008                   10
Rte. 250 Corridor ­ North Central Segment

This segment of the Rte. 250 Corridor is bordered on the north by Plank Road and on the south
by Penfield Center Road. It is characterized by sparse residential development and significant
open lands, including woods and wetlands. Agriculture is present, especially in the area of Allen
Road, southward towards Northrup Road.

Vision:

It is likely that little development pressure will be focused on this segment. It provides a very
natural appearance along Rte. 250, with the wooded lands abutting the corridor on both sides and
a few farm fields visible from the road. Sanitary sewers are not likely in this area in the
foreseeable future and development opportunities should be limited to low density residential
and agricultural uses.


Rural Character Preservation Goals:

To maintain rural low-density residential development (min. lot size two acres) and agricultural
operations as the main land uses.

To maintain a natural appearance from the street, with adequate setbacks, street trees and
landscaping.


Environmental Goals:

To protect sensitive environmental features of the area. Several of the large wooded areas
contain wetlands under State and/or Federal jurisdiction. With any new development proposal in
or near these areas, wetland delineations should be done relatively early in the process to
determine the limits of the wetlands. Stormwater discharges to these wetlands should be subject
to features or facilities designed to protect water quality.

To recognize development limitations. As sewers are not expected in this area in the foreseeable
future, soil limitations should be considered with any new development proposal. Septic system
locations on soils not properly suited for percolation should be avoided.


Development Goals:

To preserve the natural setting and sensitive environmental features that are found along this
stretch of Rte. 250.




September, 2008                                    11
Possible Incentives:

None of these properties are on the Town's Open Space Plan or Open Space Update. However,
property owners should be encouraged to apply under the Town's Open Space Easement Law,
providing a reduction in assessed value of vacant acreage in exchange for a commitment
prohibiting further development or subdivision of the property for a specific period of years.




September, 2008                                  12
Figure 3. North central segment map.




September, 2008                        13
Rte. 250 Corridor ­ Central Segment

This segment of the Rte. 250 Corridor currently transitions from active agricultural uses at the
northern end (Penfield Center Road) to commercial development near Atlantic Avenue to vacant
land & residential homes south of Atlantic Avenue. A substantial portion of this area remains in
active farming. There is permanent open space bordering this area on the east (Willmes
Vineyards) and the west (Veterans Memorial Park). This segment also contains an intersection
of two main state highways, NYS Rte. 250 (Fairport Nine Mile Point Road) and NYS Rte. 286
(Atlantic Avenue). There is an abandoned service station at the northwest corner of Atlantic
Avenue and Rte. 250 that is currently zoned residential. Commercial uses on the east side of
Rte. 250 include a gasoline sales, automotive repair and convenience store; a small service
business and an animal hospital/veterinarian office.

Graves Corners was the name given to the intersection of Route 250 and Penfield Center Road,
in early Penfield history. The designation "Graves Corners" is shown on the 1852 map of the
town. The original member of the Graves family to come to Penfield was Stephen Selden
Graves. He was a young preacher who led the early Methodist worship. He moved to Penfield
from Lima, about 1806, settling in the area of Penfield Center, or Graves Corners. His
descendants continued to live and work in the area.

Several members of the Graves family owned homes in that area, as indicated on the 1852 map.
There were also other homes in the area, as well as a school and blacksmith shop. The
Cobblestone School at the southeast corner of the intersection was built in 1849 and was in
School District #11.


Vision:

The LUAC sees this segment as having some development potential, but recognizes the possible
limitation of sanitary sewers to this area. Land in the northeast quadrant of the intersection of
Rtes. 250 and 286 (Atlantic Avenue) is currently zoned Limited Business (LB) and no changes
are recommended in this area.

Several of the parcels at or near this intersection of Rtes. 250/286 are probably not appropriate
for residential development, due to the high traffic volumes, anticipated widening for left turn
lanes at the intersection and proximity to other non-residential development. The two larger
parcels south of the intersection on the east side (3293 Atlantic Avenue and 1720 Fairport Nine
Mile Point Road) may be appropriate for Business Non-Retail (BN-R) uses, such as offices. Any
non-residential development on these properties should incorporate adequate setbacks and
buffers to protect the residential character of the homes on Madaket Drive. Existing vegetation
along the eastern border should be preserved.

The abandoned gas station and some of the land north of it on the northwest corner and the 10-
acre parcel on the southwest corner should be considered for Limited Business-type uses.



September, 2008                                   14
On the north side of Atlantic Avenue, lands to the north of the commercial areas (both existing
and recommended) and lands to the west should be considered for a transitional use, such as
recreational uses. The presence of an equestrian facility at Penfield Center Road and the past
application for a golf-related facility on lands at 1600 Fairport Nine Mile Point Road would seem
to be examples of good transitional uses that could take advantage of the relatively larger vacant
parcels. Some consideration could be given to conditionally permitted uses or possibly higher
density residential uses, if sanitary sewers are available.

Rural Character Preservation Goals:

To recognize and promote historical features of this segment. Based upon the above vision, the
Rural Character will be more prominent in the northern portion of this segment, closer to
Penfield Center Road. There are some older homes and a former cobblestone schoolhouse
converted to a home at this intersection, known as Graves Corners. Any development in
proximity to the older homes or the former cobblestone school should be sensitive to their
preservation and compatibility.

Environmental Goals:

To recognize and plan for environmentally sensitive features of the area. There are wetlands
bordering the eastern and western limits of this segment, north of Atlantic Avenue. Lands in the
southwest quadrant of the intersection primarily drain to a wetland west of Mallory Lane,
although some of the area nearest the intersection may drain east. Development on these
properties should be sensitive to the fragile nature of these wetlands and drainage patterns,
especially related to stormwater discharges.

Development Goals:

To consider access management techniques that are appropriate for the area. New residential
and non-residential development in this segment should be analyzed for coordinated access
locations with adequate sight distance and separation, as well as appropriate interconnections.
Non-residential development should be evaluated for shared and/or interconnected parking areas.

To undertake a sewer capacity study for this area, prior to making decisions on increased
intensity of land uses in this segment.

To encourage non-motorized transportation in and through this segment. Proximity of this
segment to Veterans Memorial Park warrants the development of a safe pedestrian and bicycle
network to connect to existing & future trails and sidewalk systems.

To incorporate architectural design standards for exterior appearance of new non-residential
structures and multi-residential structures, if permitted. All new development in this segment
will be very visible. Exterior lighting should not negatively affect existing residential
properties. Landscaping should be compatible on adjoining developments to provide continuity.




September, 2008                                    15
Possible Incentives:

Higher density development could be considered with donation of open space lands or achieving
other community goals through Incentive Zoning, clustering or other techniques available.




September, 2008                                 16
Figure 4. Central segment map.




September, 2008                  17
Rte. 250 Corridor ­ Proposed Hamlet Segment

The traditional Hamlet was a group of uses that typically included a store or inn, a post office
and a few residential homes. These hamlets usually popped up along the busier thoroughfares
and served as a focal point for a neighborhood.

The proposed "Hamlet" concept should be considered an independent district or series of
permitted or specially permitted small scale businesses, agricultural and residential uses for lands
in proximity to the intersection of Sweets Corners Road and NYS Rte. 250. Properties within
this area are not specifically defined or identified and being included or excluded, because this
will more than likely be an evolution of development patterns to achieve the vision stated below.
Transitional development patterns are evolving from the Town's agricultural roots and the
expanding residential population. Significant volumes and speeds of vehicles in the area prompt
a unique approach to this area's future. The amount of vacant land in the area and lands where
redevelopment appears likely warrants a plan for the future.

This is a new proposal for Penfield and one that evolved from many ideas at the committee level.
It is the position of the Land Use Advisory Committee (LUAC) that lands in this area will
develop over time, with or without a plan. Providing some direction through this effort is the
prudent action endorsed by the Committee. The presence of the YMCA and other agri-
businesses reduces the desirability of creating new residential neighborhoods in this area,
especially along the busy highway frontage. Some new and creative approaches are needed for
this area.

Vision:

This area of Penfield is characterized by gently rolling hills, sparse residential development,
active farms, farm markets and nurseries. It has a large vineyard on the eastern border that has
been preserved through the Town's Open Space initiative. Agricultural operations typically do
not operate 12 months a year in this Upstate New York climate. Some consideration should be
given to farmers to continue their customary operations, while exploring and expanding upon
support uses that continue to make agriculture a viable way to make a living.

It is also home to the Town's newest YMCA. This is a use that has an increasingly important
role in how this area develops. Its philosophy of family oriented health and wellness is being
embraced by residents of Penfield and surrounding towns. There is a need to establish inter-
relationships between developing uses and the YMCA. It can and should be considered the
anchor or core of this Hamlet Concept. This should not, however, diminish the importance of
agriculture in Penfield generally and this area, specifically.

There are a few factors that need to be considered, as this vision unfolds. These include:
               · Customary agricultural operations and support uses are a key focus of this
                   vision;
               · Environmental considerations, such as soils, wetlands and drainage must be
                   carefully planned;


September, 2008                                     18
               ·   Design guidelines should be developed that provide flexibility and encourage
                   creativity; and
               ·   Businesses or services that acknowledge and complement the YMCA and its
                   philosophy can provide a solid foundation

It is intended to create a residential, business and social focal point for the surrounding rural area.
It should focus on agriculture and health & wellness. It should take advantage of the significant
number of vehicles that pass through this area and create a destination. This unique area, based
upon the past development patterns and this vision, may warrant additional consideration in the
form of conceptual planning. While beyond the scope of the LUAC, it is recommended that the
next step be a concept design effort, to help establish design guidelines for this area.

Rural Character Preservation Goals:

To support and encourage agricultural operations and small scale support businesses along this
section of the NYS Rte. 250 corridor.

To protect the residential character of the surrounding neighborhoods through proper placement
of uses, incorporation of buffering and proper development scale.

To maintain a natural appearance from the street.



Environmental Goals:

To inspire creative design that is economically beneficial to the owner while protecting the
environment and water quality.

To acknowledge soil abilities and limitations for septic systems, stormwater management areas,
agriculture uses and structural support.

To consider alternative energy sources, innovative recycling efforts and environmentally-focused
designs of structures and parking areas.

Development Goals:

To give land owners and developers proper guidance early in the development process so that
development of the Hamlet concept results in an efficient and effective approval process.

To establish a new zoning district and set of design guidelines that promotes the vision.

To encourage the cooperation of land owners, residents and businesses in the area for
coordinated access, pedestrian-friendly connections, compatible designs in buildings,
landscaping and lighting.




September, 2008                                      19
To seek a combination of uses that are consistent with the established goals of sustaining rural
character, while complementing and supporting other uses within the district.

To provide logical linkages to the multi-use trail system proposed by the Town's Trail Concept
Plan.

To provide a visually pleasing streetscape with parking facilities located away from the main
highway and adequately screened.

To work with NYS DOT to have the speed limit lowered along this section of Rte. 250.

To identify the need for a traffic signal at or near the intersection of Rte. 250 and Sweets Corners
Road, as the Hamlet develops, if conditions warrant.

Possible Incentives:

To help landowners take advantage of environmental cost share and tax incentive programs
which may make it "worth their while" to try a different approach to developing their land.

Exemptions are available for certain uses and improvements. For agricultural uses, the
Agricultural Exemption, inclusion in the Northeast Agricultural District #3, and for business
development or expansion, use of Real Property Tax Exemption, Section 485(b).

Opportunities for the Green Building Tax Credit, offered by NYS Dept. of Environmental
Conservation have potential assistance of up to $2 million per building.




September, 2008                                     20
Figure 5. Proposed hamlet segment map.




September, 2008                          21
Rte. 250 Corridor ­ Penbrooke Drive Segment

This segment of Rte. 250 is also a transitional area of residential development northward to
Whalen Road and office & service uses bordering on the more heavily commercial area near the
intersection of Penfield Road (Rte. 441) and Rte. 250. This segment is the northern limit of the
significant roadway improvements that were completed in 2002, as part of the 250/441 capital
project. The roadway transitions from 5 lanes to two, as one heads north through this segment.

Vision:

This area will continue to function as a transitional segment of the corridor. This mixed-use area
that includes the offices, single-family homes, townhomes and apartments along Penbrooke
Drive has created a well-settled neighborhood. The vacant property at the northeast corner of
Penbrooke Drive and Rte. 250 is currently zoned for Business Non-Retail (BN-R) use, contains
some wooded areas and pockets of federal wetlands. This property is most appropriately
developed as office and service uses consistent with the BN-R zoning. The Town of Penfield
Land Use and Access Management Plan (LUAMP) recommends interconnection of non-
residential properties and shared parking, where appropriate. There are no zoning or density
changes recommended for the west side of Rte. 250, north of the Gymnastics Training Center, as
this area has remained a viable, single-family residential area.

The single most important improvement that will benefit existing and future residents and
business owners in this segment is a traffic signal at the intersection of Penbrooke Drive and Rte.
250, as recommended in LUAMP.

The property at 2018 Fairport Nine Mile Point Road (Rebis property, Figure 6), at the northeast
corner of Penbrooke Drive and NYS Route 250, is currently a 12 acre site with an existing,
abandoned house and out-buildings. This site is currently zoned Business Non-Retail (BNR). It
is recommended that this property may be appropriate for senior housing or a combination of
office and senior housing. Incorporation of senior housing, attached, detached or congregate
could be accommodated by the use of Incentive Zoning on this one parcel. Non-profit users
should be encouraged to offset the loss of tax revenue with a Payment In Lieu of Taxes (PILOT)
or similar structure.

Lands adjacent to the Harris Whalen Park should continue to be pursued, as recommended by the
Town's Parks & Recreation Master Plan, to enhance the park and provide linkages to public
sidewalks, trails and other accesses.

Neighborhood Character Preservation Goals:

To maintain healthy, mature vegetation along both sides of Rte. 250, south of Whalen Road, to
the extent practical.

To provide logical buffers and transitional uses between residential and non-residential uses.



September, 2008                                    22
Environmental Goals:

To preserve the federal wetlands and mature trees on the Rebis property at the northeast corner
of Penbrooke Drive and Rte. 250.

To preserve the rear of 2005 Frpt. Nine Mile Pt. Rd. This is heavily wooded and abuts Harris
Whalen Park and should be considered for an expansion of the park.


Development Goals:


To minimize access onto Rte. 250, for new driveways.

To enhance pedestrian links, including sidewalks, to trails & Harris Whalen Park.

To restrict access from the property at 2018 Frpt. Nine Mile Point Road to only Penbrooke Drive
(Rebis property, Figure 6).

To require compliance with the recommendations of LUAMP, including maintaining adequate
buffers, maximum building heights, shared access, shared parking, interconnection of non-
residential development and installation of a traffic signal at Penbrooke Drive and Rte. 250.

Possible Incentives:

The TF Overlay District permits the Planning Board to grant reductions in parking ratios when
certain aspects of the LUAMP recommendations are included in new development. The Board
also has the ability to "landbank" parking spaces. This permits the applicant to only pave the
spaces needed and keep green, those spaces that may not be needed immediately or at all, while
still complying with the Code requirements. Incentive Zoning may also be an appropriate tool, if
senior housing is considered for 2018 Frpt. Nine Mile Point Road.




September, 2008                                   23
Figure 6. Penbrooke Drive segment map.


September, 2008                          24
Rte. 250 Corridor ­ Southern Segment
The Land Use Advisory Committee (LUAC) has reviewed the requests that have been made
through the public input process and studied this area, from Penfield Road south to the Perinton
Town Line. The area in question has a mix of business, multi-family and single family
residential uses.

Some previous land use decisions have also been considered, the latest of which is the Incentive
Zoning application for retail and commercial uses on the front (western) portion of #2150 ­
#2170 Fairport Nine Mile Point Road. This is a transition area with the most intense commercial
uses at the northern end of the segment and the single family residences at the southern end of
the segment.

Vision:

This area of Penfield is the southern gateway to one of our most robust shopping areas and will
remain a transitional area of land uses. The west side of NYS Rte. 250 is primarily a mix of
single family homes and townhouses, serviced by New Wickham Drive. No change is proposed
for this residential area. On the east side of Rte. 250, the first residential neighborhood is
Cherrymede Subdivision, serviced by a dedicated cul-de-sac. The tributary that flows to the
north of Cherrymede provides a natural buffer to the homes that front on Rte. 250. It is these
next six properties north of Cherrymede (house numbers 2200 to 2332 Fairport Nine Mile Point
Road) that should be considered for use as one- or two-family residential homes. This will
provide the residential character that is important at this southernmost portion of the corridor,
while acknowledging that single-family residential lots fronting on this section of a busy State
highway may not be the best use of land in this area.

Moving northward, still on the east side, the properties at #2174 and #2146 abut the lands that
received Incentive Zoning approval. Both are currently zoned Business Non-Retail (BN-R),
permitting a number of office and service-type businesses. The property at #2146 abuts General
Business zoning to the north and the recently approved Incentive Zoning to the south. The
property at #2174 abuts the recently approved Incentive Zoning to the north and the group of
residences described in the above paragraph to the south. In order to promote consistency in
uses and encourage coordination in development, it is recommended that the front portion of
#2146 be considered for retail and office use, preserving the rear portion under the current
zoning of BN-R. No change is recommended for #2174, as BN-R is considered an appropriate
zoning classification at this time.

Residential Character Preservation Goals:

To maintain residential uses within the six properties north of Cherrymede Subdivision (# 2200 ­
2332) at a density of a one or two-family dwelling units per lot.

To consider the front (western) portion of the property at # 2146 as appropriate for retail and
office uses. However, the rear portion should remain BN-R and incorporate adequate buffers
from the residential properties to the east.


September, 2008                                    25
To require non-residential structures to be consistent with the Penfield Planning Board Design
Guidelines, which address issues such as exterior building designs, colors, landscaping and
exterior lighting.

Environmental Goals:

To develop a regional stormwater management facility to accommodate all non-residential
development, to treat stormwater quality and quantity.

To plan any expansions to existing structures on # 2200 - # 2332 to be sensitive to periodic
flooding of the rear yard areas along the watercourse.

Development Goals:

To consider shared access for properties at # 2200 - # 2332, wherever practical, to minimize the
number of access points onto NYS Rte. 250, as the intensity of the properties increases.

To require development on #2146 and # 2174 to be serviced by a common access road consistent
with the Land Use and Access Management Plan (LUAMP), and the existing driveways onto
NYS Rte. 250 should be eliminated.

To require shared parking agreements for non-residential development on adjacent properties.

To require non-residential properties to consider pedestrian and bicycle-related amenities, such
as sidewalks, bike racks and low-level lighting where appropriate.




September, 2008                                    26
Figure 7. Southern segment map.




September, 2008                   27
Route 250 Corridor Study                                                 October 2008 Final Report




                                          Appendix C:
                           Existing Traffic Data ­ Intersection Counts
                                             FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                        530 Summit Point Drive
                                                         Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                        Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                            Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                    File Name    : route 96 am
AA




                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                              Start Date   : 6/16/2006
                                                                                                              Page No      :1


                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks - Buses
                             Route 250                               Route 96                           Route 96
                            Southbound                              Westbound                          Eastbound
      Start Time    Right   Left    Peds App. Total    Right       Thru      Peds App. Total   Thru    Left    Peds App. Total     Int. Total
       07:00 AM        11    33         0       44         26        72           0       98    109      0         0      109            251
       07:15 AM        10    45         0       55         27       123           0      150     73      4         0       77            282
       07:30 AM        25    52         0       77         36       129           0      165     92      7         0       99            341
       07:45 AM        30    65         0       95         47       178           0      225    117     13         0      130            450
            Total      76   195         0      271       136        502           0      638    391     24         0      415           1324

       08:00 AM       22     54        0          76       36      163         0        199     96      18         0       114          389
       08:15 AM       19     43        0          62       36      204         0        240    101      15         0       116          418
       08:30 AM       16     54        0          70       34      111         0        145    116      10         0       126          341
       08:45 AM       15     52        0          67       45      137         0        182    158      14         0       172          421
            Total     72    203        0         275      151      615         0        766    471      57         0       528         1569

     Grand Total     148     398       0         546      287     1117         0       1404     862      81        0       943         2893
       Apprch %     27.1    72.9       0                 20.4      79.6        0               91.4     8.6        0
         Total %      5.1   13.8       0        18.9       9.9     38.6        0        48.5   29.8     2.8        0       32.6
            Cars     146     384       0         530      252     1069         0       1321     807      78        0        885        2736
         % Cars     98.6    96.5       0        97.1     87.8      95.7        0        94.1   93.6    96.3        0       93.8         94.6
          Trucks        2      12      0           14       31       43        0          74      49      3        0          52         140
       % Trucks       1.4       3      0          2.6    10.8       3.8        0         5.3     5.7    3.7        0         5.5          4.8
          Buses         0       2      0            2        4        5        0           9       6      0        0           6           17
        % Buses         0     0.5      0          0.4      1.4      0.4        0         0.6     0.7      0        0         0.6          0.6
                                                      FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                  530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                   Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                  Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                      Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                                           File Name      : route 96 am
AA




                                                                                                                                               Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                                               Start Date     : 6/16/2006
                                                                                                                                               Page No        :2

                                       Route 250                                     Route 96                                           Route 96
                                      Southbound                                    Westbound                                          Eastbound
        Start Time       Right        Left     Peds App. Total    Right            Thru     Peds       App. Total          Thru        Left    Peds      App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
         07:30 AM            25         52         0         77       36            129           0          165              92           7         0          99          341
         07:45 AM            30         65         0         95       47            178           0          225            117           13         0         130          450
         08:00 AM            22         54         0         76       36            163           0          199              96          18         0         114          389
         08:15 AM            19         43         0         62       36            204           0          240            101           15         0         116          418
     Total Volume            96       214          0       310      155             674           0          829            406           53         0         459         1598
      % App. Total           31         69         0               18.7            81.3           0                        88.5        11.5          0
               PHF        .800       .823       .000      .816     .824            .826        .000          .864          .868        .736       .000         .883         .888
               Cars          95       208          0       303      139             642           0           781           379           52         0          431        1515
           % Cars         99.0       97.2          0      97.7     89.7            95.3           0          94.2          93.3        98.1          0         93.9         94.8
            Trucks            1          5         0          6       14              29          0             43            25           1         0            26           75
         % Trucks           1.0        2.3         0        1.9      9.0             4.3          0            5.2           6.2         1.9         0           5.7          4.7
             Buses            0          1         0          1        2               3          0              5             2           0         0             2            8
          % Buses             0        0.5         0        0.3      1.3             0.4          0            0.6           0.5           0         0           0.4          0.5

                                                                                 Route 250
                                                                       Out          In     Total
                                                                        191          303     494
                                                                         15            6      21
                                                                           2           1       3
                                                                        208          310     518


                                                                              95     208    0
                                                                               1        5   0
                                                                               0        1   0
                                                                              96     214    0
                                                                           Right    Left Peds




                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                               1168


                               1229
                                  56
                                   5
                               Total




                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                53




                                                                                                                                        620


                                                                                                                                        587
                                                52
                                                  1
                                                  0




                                                                                                                     Right Thru Peds




                                                                                                                                         30
                                              Left




                                                                                                                       155


                                                                                                                       139



                                                                                                                                           3




                                                                               North
                                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                                         2




                                                                                                                                       Route 96
                             Route 96

                                  431


                                  459
                                   26
                                    2




                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                    406
                                                    379
                                                     25
                                                       2

                                              Peds Thru
                                 In




                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                            674


                                                                                                                            642


                                                                                                                                           829


                                                                                                                                           781
                                                                                                                             29




                                                                                                                                            43




                                                                  Cars
                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                             5




                                                                  Trucks
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                737


                                770
                                   3
                                 30




                                                                  Buses
                               Out




                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                       1449


                                                                                                                                       1368
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                          73
                                                                                                                                           8




                                                                             0             0       0
                                                                             0             0       0
                                                                             0             0       0
                                                                             0             0       0
                                                                       Out           In        Total
                                                    FRA Engineering
                                                          530 Summit Point Drive
                                                         Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                       File Name    : route 96 pm
                                                                                                                        Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date   : 6/15/2006
AA




                                                                                                                        Page No      :1


                                                    Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks - Buses
                              Route 250                                Route 96                            Route 96
                             Southbound                              Westbound                            Eastbound
      Start Time    Left    Right    Peds App. Total     Thru       Right     Peds App. Total   Left    Thru      Peds App. Total      Int. Total
       04:00 PM      71         5        0       76       169          66          0      235    18      249          0      267             578
       04:15 PM      81         4        0       85       155          80          0      235    16      235          0      251             571
       04:30 PM      85         3        0       88       160          59          0      219    17      286          0      303             610
       04:45 PM      79         6        0       85       182          67          0      249    12      319          0      331             665
            Total   316        18        0      334       666        272           0      938    63     1089          0     1152            2424

       05:00 PM      68        5         0         73      194       75         0        269     36      361        0         397           739
       05:15 PM      44       15         0         59      196       88         0        284     33      346        0         379           722
       05:30 PM      82       10         0         92      199       93         0        292     25      348        0         373           757
       05:45 PM      64        5         0         69      170       79         0        249     14      248        0         262           580
            Total   258       35         0        293      759      335         0       1094    108     1303        0        1411          2798

     Grand Total     574      53         0        627     1425       607        0       2032     171    2392        0        2563          5222
       Apprch %     91.5     8.5         0                 70.1     29.9        0                 6.7    93.3       0
         Total %       11      1         0          12     27.3     11.6        0        38.9     3.3    45.8       0         49.1
            Cars     560      51         0        611     1388       592        0       1980     169    2367        0        2536          5127
         % Cars     97.6    96.2         0       97.4      97.4     97.5        0        97.4   98.8       99       0         98.9          98.2
          Trucks       13      2         0          15       37        15       0          52       2      19       0           21            88
       % Trucks       2.3    3.8         0         2.4      2.6       2.5       0         2.6     1.2     0.8       0          0.8           1.7
          Buses         1      0         0           1        0         0       0           0       0       6       0            6             7
        % Buses       0.2      0         0         0.2        0         0       0           0       0     0.3       0          0.2           0.1
                                                             FRA Engineering
                                                                   530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                  Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                             File Name     : route 96 pm
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date    : 6/15/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                                       Page No       :2
                                                                                 Route 250
                                                                       Out          In     Total
                                                                        761          611    1372
                                                                         17           15      32
                                                                           0           1       1
                                                                        778          627    1405


                                                                              51      560    0
                                                                               2       13    0
                                                                               0         1   0
                                                                              53      574    0
                                                                           Right     Left Peds
                               3975


                               4041
                                  60
                                   6
                               Total




                                                                                                                                        2966


                                                                                                                                        2927
                                                                                                                                        Out
                                               171
                                               169
                                                  2
                                                  0




                                                                                                                     Right Thru Peds




                                                                                                                                          32
                                              Left




                                                                                                                       607 1425


                                                                                                                       592 1388



                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                               North




                                                                                                                        15
                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                        Route 96
                             Route 96

                                2536


                                2563
                                   21
                                    6




                                                                      6/15/2006 04:00 PM
                                                 0 2392
                                                 0 2367
                                                     19
                                                       6

                                              Peds Thru
                                 In




                                                                                                                                          2032


                                                                                                                                          1980
                                                                      6/15/2006 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                             37




                                                                                                                                             52
                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                      Cars
                                                 0
                                                 0
                               1439


                               1478
                                 39




                                                                      Trucks
                                   0
                               Out




                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                      Buses




                                                                                                                                        4998


                                                                                                                                        4907
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                           84
                                                                                                                                            7


                                                                             0             0       0
                                                                             0             0       0
                                                                             0             0       0
                                                                             0             0       0
                                                                       Out            In       Total
                                                                             2




                                      Route 250                                     Route 96                                             Route 96
                                     Southbound                                   Westbound                                             Eastbound
        Start Time         Left    Right       Peds App. Total     Thru          Right     Peds        App. Total          Left        Thru     Peds   App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
         04:45 PM            79         6          0         85     182               67          0          249              12         319       0         331           665
         05:00 PM            68         5          0         73     194               75          0          269              36         361       0         397           739
         05:15 PM            44        15          0         59     196               88          0          284              33         346       0         379           722
         05:30 PM            82        10          0         92     199               93          0          292              25         348       0         373           757
     Total Volume          273         36          0       309      771             323           0         1094            106        1374        0        1480          2883
      % App. Total        88.3      11.7           0               70.5            29.5           0                          7.2        92.8       0
               PHF        .832      .600        .000      .840     .969            .868        .000          .937          .736         .952    .000         .932          .952
               Cars        264         34          0       298      752             315           0         1067            106        1367        0        1473          2838
           % Cars         96.7      94.4           0      96.4     97.5            97.5           0          97.5           100         99.5       0         99.5          98.4
            Trucks            8         2          0         10       19               8          0             27             0            7      0             7            44
         % Trucks           2.9       5.6          0        3.2      2.5             2.5          0            2.5             0          0.5      0           0.5           1.5
             Buses            1         0          0          1        0               0          0              0             0            0      0             0             1
          % Buses           0.4         0          0        0.3        0               0          0              0             0            0      0             0           0.0
                             FRA Engineering
                               530 Summit Point Drive
                              Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                        File Name    : route 96 pm
                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                              Start Date   : 6/15/2006
AA




                                                                                              Page No      :3
                                             Route 250
                                   Out          In     Total
                                    421          298     719
                                       8          10      18
                                       0           1       1
                                    429          309     738


                                          34    264    0
                                           2       8   0
                                           0       1   0
                                          36    273    0
                                       Right   Left Peds




                               Peak Hour Data
      2259


      2287
         28
          0
      Total




                                                                                   1647


                                                                                   1631
                                                                                   Out
                 106
                 106
                    0
                    0




                                                                 Right Thru Peds




                                                                                     15
                Left




                                                                   323


                                                                   315



                                                                                       1
                                           North




                                                                     0
                                                                     8




                                                                                   Route 96
     Route 96

        1473


        1480
            7
            0




                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                   0 1374
                   0 1367
                         7
                         0

                Peds Thru
         In




                                                                                     1094


                                                                                     1067
                                                                                      In
                                                                        771


                                                                        752
                                                                         19
                              Cars




                                                                                        27
                                                                           0




                                                                                         0
                              Trucks
                   0
                   0
       786


       807
        21




                              Buses
          0
      Out




                                                                                   Total
                                                                                   2741


                                                                                   2698
                                                                               0
                                                                               0
                                                                               0
                                                                               0




                                                                                      42
                                                                                       1


                                         0           0       0
                                         0           0       0
                                         0           0       0
                                         0           0       0
                                   Out          In       Total
                                         2
                                                                    FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                              530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                               Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                             Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                 Rt 31 @ Rt 250                                    File Name             : Rt 31 AM_All Legs
AA




                                                                                                                                   Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date            : 6/15/2006
                                                                                                                                   Page No               :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Trucks - Buses
                                Rt 250                                    Rt 31                               Rt 250                                   Rt 31
                              Southbound                                Westbound                           Northbound                               Eastbound
     Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM      25       45    16    0         86         17    154     11      0     182      10     51     23    0        84         16      97    14    0        127         479
      07:15 AM      60     109     23    0        192         41    159     31      0     231      12     51     39    0       102         10    104     30    0        144         669
      07:30 AM      49     140     58    0        247         22    182     25      0     229       6     66     38    0       110         18    151     28    0        197         783
      07:45 AM      47     111     32    0        190         16    159     25      0     200      13     56     30    0        99         16    112     20    0        148         637
           Total   181     405 129       0        715         96    654     92      0     842      41 224 130          0       395         60    464     92    0        616        2568

      08:00 AM        56      87      23   0     166           21   159      35     0    215       11      33      47   0       91          12    106       20   0     138          610
      08:15 AM        26      62      24   0     112            9   155      17     0    181       20      67      46   0      133          25      87      19   0     131          557
      08:30 AM        51      87      22   0     160           12   120      39     0    171       31      59      36   0      126          33    103       21   0     157          614
     Grand Total    314     641     198    0    1153         138    1088   183      0   1409     103     383     259    0      745        130     760     152    0    1042         4349
      Apprch %     27.2    55.6    17.2    0                  9.8   77.2     13     0           13.8    51.4    34.8    0                12.5    72.9    14.6    0
       Total %       7.2   14.7      4.6   0     26.5         3.2     25    4.2     0    32.4     2.4     8.8       6   0     17.1           3   17.5      3.5   0        24
      Unshifted     292     620     183    0    1095         135    1064   172      0   1371       97    363     255    0      715        122     719     141    0      982        4163
     % Unshifted      93   96.7    92.4    0       95       97.8    97.8     94     0    97.3   94.2    94.8    98.5    0        96      93.8    94.6    92.8    0     94.2         95.7
        Trucks        22      21      15   0       58           3     24     11     0      38       2      15       4   0        21          6      36      10   0        52         169
      % Trucks         7     3.3     7.6   0        5         2.2    2.2      6     0     2.7     1.9     3.9     1.5   0       2.8        4.6     4.7     6.6   0         5          3.9
         Buses         0       0       0   0        0           0      0      0     0       0       4       5       0   0         9          2       5       1   0         8           17
      % Buses          0       0       0   0        0           0      0      0     0       0     3.9     1.3       0   0       1.2        1.5     0.7     0.7   0       0.8          0.4
                                                               FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                               530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                               Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                   Rt 31 @ Rt 250                                               File Name            : Rt 31 AM_All Legs
AA




                                                                                                                                                Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                Start Date           : 6/15/2006
                                                                                                                                                Page No              :2

                              Rt 250                         Rt 31                                                      Rt 250                                      Rt 31
                           Southbound                      Westbound                                                  Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                             App. Total    Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:30 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       60 109          23      0      192  41 159    31    0                           231         12       51    39      0       102         10    104     30      0       144           669
  07:30 AM       49 140          58      0      247  22 182    25    0                          229           6       66    38      0        110        18    151     28      0        197          783
  07:45 AM       47 111          32      0      190  16 159    25    0                          200          13     56      30      0        99         16    112     20      0       148         637
  08:00 AM       56      87      23      0      166  21 159    35    0                          215          11     33      47      0        91         12    106     20      0       138         610
 Total Volume  212 447 136               0      795 100 659 116      0                          875          42    206     154      0       402         56    473     98      0       627        2699
     % App. Total   26.7   56.2   17.1      0           11.4         75.3   13.3       0                   10.4    51.2    38.3      0                  8.9   75.4   15.6      0
             PHF    .883   .798   .586   .000   .805    .610         .905   .829    .000        .947       .808    .780    .819   .000      .914      .778    .783   .817   .000      .796          .862
        Unshifted    201    429    127      0    757      98          641    109       0         848         38     193     152      0       383         49    445     89      0       583         2571
     % Unshifted
        Trucks       11     18      9      0     38        2          18      7       0           27          1      12      2      0         15         5      25     8      0         38          118
      % Trucks      5.2    4.0    6.6      0    4.8      2.0         2.7    6.0       0          3.1        2.4     5.8    1.3      0        3.7       8.9     5.3   8.2      0        6.1           4.4
         Buses        0      0      0      0      0        0           0      0       0            0          3       1      0      0          4         2       3     1      0          6            10
      % Buses         0      0      0      0      0        0           0      0       0            0        7.1     0.5      0      0        1.0       3.6     0.6   1.0      0        1.0           0.4

                                                                                                 Rt 250
                                                                                     Out           In         Total
                                                                                      380           757        1137
                                                                                       22            38          60
                                                                                         2            0           2
                                                                                      404           795        1199


                                                                                     201  429              127    0
                                                                                      11   18                 9   0
                                                                                       0     0                0   0
                                                                                     212  447              136    0
                                                                                   Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                        6
                                       69




                                                    98
                                                       8
                                                       1
                                    1577


                                    1652


                                                    89




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                    Total




                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                     100




                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                      98


                                                                                                                                                         651


                                                                                                                                                         610
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       2




                                                                                                                                                          35
                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                            North
                                                              473
                                                                 3
                                                               25
                                                              445



                                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                          659


                                                                                                                                          641




                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                        6
                                       38
                                     583


                                     627




                                                                                                                                           18




                                                                                                                                                        Rt 31
                                  Rt 31
                                     In




                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                          875


                                                                                                                                                          848
                                                          56




                                                                                                                                                           27




                                                                               Unshifted
                                                           5
                                                           2
                                                          49




                                                                                                                                   Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                    116


                                                                                                                                    109




                                                                               Trucks
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       7




                                                                               Buses
                                      31
                                        0
                                     994


                                    1025
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                        1526


                                                                                                                                                        1458
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                           62
                                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                    Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                     152    193    38    0
                                                                                         2   12     1    0
                                                                                         0     1    3    0
                                                                                     154    206    42    0


                                                                                      587           383         970
                                                                                       30            15          45
                                                                                         2            4           6
                                                                                      619           402        1021
                                                                                     Out           In         Total
                                                                                                 Rt 250
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                    File Name           : Rt31_PM_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                    Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                    Start Date          : 6/15/2006
                                                                                                                                    Page No             :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted - Trucks - Buses
                            2                                       3                                    2                                       3
                              Southbound                               Westbound                           Northbound                              Eastbound
     Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru  Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
      04:00 PM      28       87    27    0       142         20    154     43      0     217      10     90     27    0       127         29    180    60     0         269          755
      04:15 PM      26       78    38    0       142         19    154     32      0     205      10 107        49    0       166         13    176    31     0         220          733
      04:30 PM      40     100     42    0       182         20    136     23      0     179      25 114        44    0       183         23    192    36     0         251          795
      04:45 PM      27       77    31    0       135         37    168     24      0     229      25 122        45    0       192         18    208    52     0         278          834
           Total   121     342 138       0       601         96    612 122         0     830      70 433 165          0       668         83    756 179       0        1018         3117

      05:00 PM      28      86     44     0      158        26     172     37      0     235    18     143      54     0      215        13     228     56       0      297          905
      05:15 PM      24      96     32     0      152        32     163     26      0     221    36     133      45     0      214        29     222     60       0      311          898
      05:30 PM      30      88     33     0      151        25     153     32      0     210    27     103      53     0      183        55     140     65       4      264          808
      05:45 PM      28      73     37     0      138        36     132     24      0     192    26      99      36     0      161        29     226     71       0      326          817
           Total   110     343    146     0      599       119     620    119      0     858   107     478     188     0      773       126     816    252       4     1198         3428

     Grand Total    231     685    284    0    1200         215    1232    241     0   1688     177     911     353    0    1441         209    1572    431       4    2216         6545
      Apprch %     19.2    57.1   23.7    0                12.7      73   14.3     0           12.3    63.2    24.5    0                  9.4   70.9   19.4     0.2
       Total %       3.5   10.5     4.3   0     18.3         3.3   18.8     3.7    0    25.8     2.7   13.9      5.4   0      22          3.2     24     6.6    0.1     33.9
      Unshifted     229     678    280    0    1187         212    1184    236     0   1632     177     899     351    0    1427         206    1531    427       4    2168         6414
     % Unshifted   99.1      99   98.6    0     98.9       98.6    96.1   97.9     0    96.7    100    98.7    99.4    0      99        98.6    97.4   99.1    100      97.8           98
        Trucks         2      7       4   0       13           2     48       3    0      53       0      12       2   0      14            3     38       2      0       43         123
      % Trucks       0.9      1     1.4   0      1.1         0.9    3.9     1.2    0     3.1       0     1.3     0.6   0       1          1.4    2.4     0.5      0      1.9          1.9
         Buses         0      0       0   0        0           1      0       2    0       3       0       0       0   0       0            0      3       2      0        5            8
      % Buses          0      0       0   0        0         0.5      0     0.8    0     0.2       0       0       0   0       0            0    0.2     0.5      0      0.2          0.1
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                 File Name           : Rt31_PM_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                 Start Date          : 6/15/2006
                                                                                                                                                 Page No             :2

                            2                              3                                                          2                                       3
                           Southbound                        Westbound                                                Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                             App. Total    Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM       27      77      31      0      135  37 168      24    0                        229          25    122     45      0       192         18    208      52      0       278           834
  05:00 PM       28      86      44      0      158  26 172      37    0                         235         18    143     54      0        215        13    228      56      0       297           905
  05:15 PM       24      96      32      0      152  32 163      26    0                        221          36    133     45      0       214         29    222      60      0        311        898
  05:30 PM       30      88      33      0      151  25 153      32    0                        210         27     103     53      0       183         55    140      65      4      264          808
 Total Volume  109 347 140               0      596 120 656 119        0                        895        106     501    197      0       804       115     798     233      4     1150         3445
     % App. Total   18.3   58.2   23.5      0           13.4         73.3   13.3       0                   13.2    62.3   24.5      0                  10    69.4   20.3     0.3
             PHF    .908   .904   .795   .000   .943    .811         .953   .804    .000        .952       .736    .876   .912   .000      .935      .523    .875   .896   .250       .924          .952
        Unshifted    109    344    140      0    593     120          632    117       0         869        106     492    197      0       795       114     772    231       4     1121          3378
     % Unshifted
        Trucks        0      3      0      0      3         0         24      1       0           25          0       9     0      0          9         1      24      2      0         27            64
      % Trucks        0    0.9      0      0    0.5         0        3.7    0.8       0          2.8          0     1.8     0      0        1.1       0.9     3.0    0.9      0        2.3           1.9
         Buses        0      0      0      0      0         0          0      1       0            1          0       0     0      0          0         0       2      0      0          2             3
      % Buses         0      0      0      0      0         0          0    0.8       0          0.1          0       0     0      0          0         0     0.3      0      0        0.2           0.1

                                                                                         2
                                                                                     Out            In        Total
                                                                                      843            593       1436
                                                                                       11              3         14
                                                                                         0             0          0
                                                                                      854            596       1450


                                                                                     109  344              140    0
                                                                                       0     3                0   0
                                                                                       0     0                0   0
                                                                                     109  347              140    0
                                                                                   Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                        2
                                       51




                                                   233
                                    2059


                                    2112



                                                       2
                                                       0
                                                   231




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                    Total




                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                    120


                                                                                                                                    120


                                                                                                                                                       1044


                                                                                                                                                       1018
                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                         24
                                                                                                                                                           2



                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                            North
                                                              798
                                                                 2
                                                               24
                                                              772



                                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                         656


                                                                                                                                         632




                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                       27
                                        2
                                    1121


                                    1150




                                                                                                                                          24
                                     In




                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                        895


                                                                                                                                                        869




                                                                               Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                         25
                                                         115
                                                           1
                                                           0
                                                         114




                                                                                                                                  Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                   119


                                                                                                                                   117




                                                                               Trucks
                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                               Buses
                                      0
                                    24
                                   938


                                   962
                                    3
                                  Out




                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                     4
                                                     4
                                                     0
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                       1939


                                                                                                                                                       1887
                                                                                                                                                          49
                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                    Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                     197    492   106    0
                                                                                         0     9    0    0
                                                                                         0     0    0    0
                                                                                     197    501   106    0


                                                                                      575            795       1370
                                                                                         5             9         14
                                                                                         1             0          1
                                                                                      581            804       1385
                                                                                     Out            In        Total
                                                                                         2
                                                                       FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                                  530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                   Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                                 Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                     Rt 96 @ Rt 250                             File Name               : Ayrault_AM_All Legs
AA




                                                                                                                                Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                                                                Start Date              : 6/16/2006
                                                                                                                                Page No                 :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Unshifted - Trucks - Buses
                                Rt 250                                     Ayrault Rd                            Rt 250                                 Ayrault Rd
                              Southbound                                   Westbound                           Northbound                               Eastbound
     Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM       7       56    18    0            81         21    105     32      0     158      15     30      9    0        54         7       45     9     0           61         354
      07:15 AM      17       75    24    1           117         12    124     46      0     182      18     63     34    0       115        21       39    12     0           72         486
      07:30 AM      38       81    25    0           144         22    186     41      0     249      16     68     36    0       120        45       56    15     0          116         629
      07:45 AM      56     143     27    0           226          8    186     53      0     247      14     71     30    0       115        52       88    22     1          163         751
           Total   118     355     94    1           568         63    601 172         0     836      63 232 109          0       404       125     228     58     1          412        2220

      08:00 AM       29     95        7      0       131         10    148     65      0     223     18     47       15    0       80        36      49       14      0        99         533
      08:15 AM       13     91        8      1       113         14    105     51      0     170     18     59       17    0       94        31      56       12      0        99         476
      08:30 AM       24     96        8      1       129         14    112     38      0     164     18     78        5    0      101        22      45       15      0        82         476
      08:45 AM       25     69       28      0       122         39    114     26      0     179     28     74       20    0      122        38      48       12      0        98         521
           Total     91    351       51      2       495         77    479    180      0     736     82    258       57    0      397       127     198       53      0       378        2006

     Grand Total    209     706     145       3    1063         140    1080    352     0   1572     145     490     166    0      801        252     426     111       1      790        4226
      Apprch %     19.7    66.4    13.6     0.3                  8.9   68.7   22.4     0           18.1    61.2    20.7    0                31.9    53.9    14.1     0.1
       Total %       4.9   16.7      3.4    0.1     25.2         3.3   25.6     8.3    0    37.2     3.4   11.6      3.9   0        19          6   10.1      2.6      0     18.7
      Unshifted     202     686     120       2    1010         116    1005    337     0   1458     139     459     164    0      762        251     377     106       1      735        3965
     % Unshifted   96.7    97.2    82.8    66.7       95       82.9    93.1   95.7     0    92.7   95.9    93.7    98.8    0     95.1       99.6    88.5    95.5    100         93        93.8
        Trucks         4       9       4      0       17           4     24       5    0      33       3      22       0   0        25          0      16       3      0        19           94
      % Trucks       1.9     1.3     2.8      0      1.6         2.9    2.2     1.4    0     2.1     2.1     4.5       0   0       3.1          0     3.8     2.7      0       2.4          2.2
         Buses         3      11      21      1       36          20     51      10    0      81       3       9       2   0        14          1      33       2      0        36         167
      % Buses        1.4     1.6   14.5    33.3      3.4       14.3     4.7     2.8    0     5.2     2.1     1.8     1.2   0       1.7        0.4     7.7     1.8      0       4.6            4
                                                                 FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                                530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                 Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                                Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                    Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                         File Name              : Ayrault_AM_All Legs
AA




                                                                                                                                           Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                                                           Start Date             : 6/16/2006
                                                                                                                                           Page No                :2

                              Rt 250                         Ayrault Rd                                                  Rt 250                                    Ayrault Rd
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                  Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                              App. Total    Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       17      75      24      1      117  12 124      46     0                        182          18       63    34      0       115         21     39     12       0        72           486
  07:30 AM       38      81      25      0      144  22  186     41     0                         249         16       68    36      0        120        45     56     15       0       116           629
  07:45 AM       56     143      27      0      226   8 186      53     0                        247          14       71    30      0       115         52     88     22       1        163          751
  08:00 AM       29      95       7      0      131  10 148      65     0                        223          18     47      15      0        80        36      49     14       0        99         533
 Total Volume  140 394           83      1      618  52 644 205         0                        901          66    249     115      0       430       154     232     63       1       450        2399
     % App. Total   22.7   63.8   13.4     0.2             5.8        71.5   22.8       0                   15.3    57.9    26.7      0                34.2    51.6     14     0.2
             PHF    .625   .689   .769   .250    .684    .591         .866   .788    .000        .905       .917    .877    .799   .000      .896      .740    .659   .716   .250       .690          .799
        Unshifted    136    385     63       1    585       39         598    198       0         835         63     234     113      0       410       154     200     63       1       418         2248
     % Unshifted
        Trucks        2      6       3      0     11       2           14      3       0           19          2      13      0      0         15         0       5     0       0          5            50
      % Trucks      1.4    1.5     3.6      0    1.8     3.8          2.2    1.5       0          2.1        3.0     5.2      0      0        3.5         0     2.2     0       0        1.1           2.1
         Buses        2      3      17      0     22      11           32      4       0           47          1       2      2      0          5         0      27     0       0         27          101
      % Buses       1.4    0.8    20.5      0    3.6    21.2          5.0    2.0       0          5.2        1.5     0.8    1.7      0        1.2         0    11.6     0       0        6.0           4.2

                                                                                                  Rt 250
                                                                                      Out           In         Total
                                                                                       336           585         921
                                                                                        15            11          26
                                                                                        13            22          35
                                                                                       364           618         982


                                                                                      136  385               63    1
                                                                                        2     6                3   0
                                                                                        2     3              17    0
                                                                                      140  394               83    1
                                                                                    Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                       21
                                       63




                                                     63
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                    1265


                                    1349


                                                     63




                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                    Total




                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                       52
                                                                                                                                       11

                                                                                                                                       39


                                                                                                                                                          381


                                                                                                                                                          326
                                                                                                                                        2




                                                                                                                                                           45
                                                                                                                                                           10




                                                                                             North
                                                               232
                                                                  5
                                                                27
                                                               200



                                                   Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                         Ayrault Rd
                                  Ayrault Rd




                                                                                                                                           644


                                                                                                                                           598




                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                           5
                                         27
                                       418


                                       450




                                                                                                                                            32
                                                                                                                                            14
                                       In




                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                              901


                                                                                                                                                              835
                                                                                                                                                               47
                                                                                                                                                               19
                                                          154




                                                                                Unshifted
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                          154




                                                                                                                                    Left Peds
                                                                                                                                     205


                                                                                                                                     198




                                                                                Trucks
                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                Buses
                                      16
                                      36
                                     847


                                     899
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                      1




                                                                                                                                                         1282


                                                                                                                                                         1161
                                                      1
                                                      0
                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                            92
                                                                                                                                                            29
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                     Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                      113    234    63    0
                                                                                          0   13     2    0
                                                                                          2     2    1    0
                                                                                      115    249    66    0


                                                                                       737           410        1147
                                                                                          9           15          24
                                                                                          7            5          12
                                                                                       753           430        1183
                                                                                      Out           In         Total
                                                                                                  Rt 250
                                                                    FRA Engineering
                                                                          530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                         Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                              File Name     : Ayrault PM_All Legs
                                                                                                                                               Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                               Start Date    : 6/16/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                               Page No       :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks - Buses
                             Route 250                              Ayrault Road                        Route 250                            Ayrault Road
                            Southbound                              Westbound                          Northbound                             Eastbound
      Start Time    Left    Thru Right          Peds         Left    Thru Right Peds            Left   Thru Right          Peds     Left      Thru Right         Peds Int. Total
       04:00 PM      39      132       17           0         24       65      15        0       51     137       33           0     26         81      38           0      658
       04:15 PM       4      108       22           0         44       65      12        2       25     110       57           0     23         98      35           0      605
       04:30 PM      11      112       21           0         36       70        8       0       29     120       50           0     22         84      33           0      596
       04:45 PM      19       93       27           0         49       57      15        0       27     132       74           0     40        116      51           0      700
            Total    73      445       87           0        153      257      50        2      132     499     214            0    111        379     157           0     2559

       05:00 PM        9     139         24         0         51      86       12          0        31     119      71         0      20         96       35        0       693
       05:15 PM       17     114         17         0         41      43       12          0        26     108      72         0      22        119       28        0       619
       05:30 PM       13     115         13         0         35      30       10          0        20      96      34         0      19        114       40        0       539
       05:45 PM       16     108         15         0         43      64       14          0        30     165      57         0      19        130       44        0       705
            Total     55     476         69         0        170     223       48          0       107     488     234         0      80        459      147        0      2556

     Grand Total     128     921       156          0        323      480      98           2       239     987     448        0     191        838       304       0      5115
       Apprch %     10.6    76.4      12.9          0       35.8     53.2    10.9         0.2      14.3       59   26.8        0    14.3       62.9      22.8       0
         Total %      2.5     18          3         0         6.3      9.4    1.9           0        4.7   19.3      8.8       0      3.7      16.4        5.9      0
            Cars     125     903       155          0        322      470      96           2       235     970     445        0     190        829       304       0      5046
         % Cars     97.7      98      99.4          0       99.7     97.9      98        100       98.3    98.3    99.3        0    99.5       98.9       100       0       98.7
          Trucks        2     18          0         0           1        9      2           0          4      13       3       0        1          7         0      0         60
       % Trucks       1.6      2          0         0         0.3      1.9      2           0        1.7     1.3     0.7       0      0.5        0.8         0      0        1.2
          Buses         1      0          1         0           0        1      0           0          0       4       0       0        0          2         0      0          9
        % Buses       0.8      0        0.6         0           0      0.2      0           0          0     0.4       0       0        0        0.2         0      0        0.2


                                                                                       Route 250
                                                                              Out         In       Total
                                                                              1256       1183       2439
                                                                                16          20        36
                                                                                  4          2         6
                                                                              1276       1205       2481


                                                                               155  903      125    0
                                                                                 0   18         2   0
                                                                                 1     0        1   0
                                                                               156  921      128    0
                                                                             Right Thru     Left Peds
                                   4
                                  21




                                                  191
                               2183


                               2208



                                                      1
                                                      0
                                                  190




                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                               Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                    1414


                                                                                                                                    1399
                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                         98


                                                                                                                         96
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                          2




                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                       North
                                                             838
                                                                7
                                                                2
                                                             829




                                                                                                                                    Ayrault Road
                                 Ayrault Road




                                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                             480


                                                                                                                             470




                                                                              6/16/2006 04:00 PM
                                           8
                                           2
                                      1323


                                      1333
                                        In




                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                9




                                                                              6/16/2006 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                          903


                                                                                                                                          890
                                                                                                                                           12
                                                        304
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                        304




                                                                                                                      Left Peds




                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                       323


                                                                                                                       322




                                                                              Cars
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                          1




                                                                              Trucks
                                 2
                               13
                              860


                              875
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0




                                                                              Buses
                                                                                                                                                 2317


                                                                                                                                                 2289
                                                                                                                                                    24
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              2




                                                                             Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                              235    970   445    0
                                                                                  4   13     3    0
                                                                                  0     4    0    0
                                                                              239    987   448    0


                                                                              1529       1650       3179
                                                                                19          20        39
                                                                                  0          4         4
                                                                              1548       1674       3222
                                                                              Out         In       Total
                                                                                       Route 250
                                                                                     FRA Engineering
                                                                                         530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                        Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                             File Name       : Ayrault PM_All Legs
                                                                                                                                                                             Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                             Start Date      : 6/16/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                                                             Page No         :2


                                Route 250                                       Ayrault Road                                    Route 250                                    Ayrault Road
                               Southbound                                       Westbound                                       Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru                             Right   Peds      App. Total    Left Thru       Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right            Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       11 112          21      0      144  36    70                           8         0       114          29    120       50       0      199        22      84           33      0      139           596
  04:45 PM       19      93      27      0      139  49    57                          15         0       121          27    132       74       0       233       40     116           51      0       207          700
  05:00 PM         9 139         24      0      172  51    86                          12         0        149         31    119      71        0      221        20      96        35         0      151         693
  05:15 PM       17 114          17      0      148  41    43                          12         0        96         26     108      72        0      206        22      119       28         0      169         619
 Total Volume    56 458          89      0      603 177 256                            47         0       480        113     479     267        0      859       104     415       147         0      666        2608
     % App. Total     9.3      76   14.8       0                36.9         53.3      9.8       0                   13.2    55.8    31.1       0                15.6    62.3      22.1        0
             PHF    .737    .824    .824    .000       .876     .868         .744    .783     .000        .805       .911    .907    .902    .000      .922      .650    .872      .721     .000      .804          .931
             Cars      56    452       88      0        596      176          254       45       0         475        111     475     267       0       853       104     412       147        0       663         2587
         % Cars      100    98.7    98.9       0       98.8     99.4         99.2    95.7        0        99.0       98.2    99.2     100       0      99.3       100    99.3       100        0      99.5          99.2
          Trucks        0       6       0      0           6        1            2       2       0            5          2       4      0       0          6        0        2        0        0          2            19
        % Trucks        0     1.3       0      0         1.0      0.6          0.8     4.3       0          1.0        1.8     0.8      0       0        0.7        0      0.5        0        0        0.3           0.7
           Buses        0       0       1      0           1        0            0       0       0            0          0       0      0       0          0        0        1        0        0          1             2
        % Buses         0       0     1.1      0         0.2        0            0       0       0            0          0       0      0       0          0        0      0.2        0        0        0.2           0.1

                                                                                                        Route 250
                                                                                               Out         In           Total
                                                                                                624         596          1220
                                                                                                   6          6            12
                                                                                                   0          1             1
                                                                                                630         603          1233


                                                                                                88  452               56    0
                                                                                                 0     6                0   0
                                                                                                 1     0                0   0
                                                                                                89  458               56    0
                                                                                             Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                           6
                                           2




                                                           104
                                       1116


                                       1124



                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                           104




                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                       Total




                                                          Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                  47


                                                                                                                                                  45


                                                                                                                                                                   738


                                                                                                                                                                   735
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                      2




                                                                                                      North
                                                                      415
                                                                         2
                                                                         1
                                                                      412




                                                                                                                                                                  Ayrault Road
                                        Ayrault Road




                                                          Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                      256


                                                                                                                                                      254




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                  2
                                                  1
                                                663


                                                666
                                               In




                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         2




                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                                        480


                                                                                                                                                                        475




                                                                                         Cars
                                                                 147
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                 147




                                                                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                177


                                                                                                                                                176




                                                                                         Trucks
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                         Buses
                                        4
                                        1
                                     453


                                     458
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                               1218


                                                                                                                                                                               1210
                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                              Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                               111    475   267    0
                                                                                                   2     4    0    0
                                                                                                   0     0    0    0
                                                                                               113    479   267    0


                                                                                                775         853          1628
                                                                                                   7          6            13
                                                                                                   0          0             0
                                                                                                782         859          1641
                                                                                               Out         In           Total
                                                                                                        Route 250
                                                                                    Morning Traffic Count Summary
Intersection of: Church Street @ Route 250                                                                                                                         Municipality: Penfield
Day: Wednesday             Date: 6/14/06                                                                                                                           Period of Count: 7:00am to 9:00am
ALL TRAFFIC:
                 Southbound on:          Route 250                         Westbound on:    Church Street                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Church Street
              I
                     2         3            4          1                      6         7      8          5                      10       11      12         9                       14        15      16         13
  TIME OF N                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRAND
                R
 INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL
             E
                  RIGHT    THRU           LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU     LEFT      ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL           RIGHT     THRU     LEFT      ROR     TOTAL
 7:00 to 7:15 1      7        23            2                  32              4       68       5                 77              3       25     13                  41               3        37       7                 47            197
 7:15 to 7:30 2     29        47            7                  83              3       98      14                115              2       26     19                  47               4        42      16                 62            307
7:30 to 7:45 3      19        55           4                   78             1       105      32                138             5       39      20                  64              6         62      19                 87           367
7:45 to 8:00 4      12        52           22                  86             8        68      19                 95             11      68      33                 112              18        92      3                 113           406
8:00 to 8:15 5      22        95           5                  122             12       65      11                 88             9       25      3                   37              13        65      22                100           347
8:15 to 8:30 6      17       105           3                  125             4        78      10                 92             8       45      5                   58              8        135      15                158           433
 8:30 to 8:45 7      8        53            3                  64              3       40      10                 53              2       25      3                  30               2        63      17                 82            229
 8:45 to 9:00 8      7        20            1                  28              5       68       4                 77              3       27      2                  32               1        54       7                 62            199
P.H. TOTAL          70       307           34          0      411             25      316      72           0    413             33      177     61          0      271              45       354      59           0    458           1553
P.H. FACTOR                                                   0.82                                               0.75                                               0.60                                                 0.72          0.90

TRUCKS, BUSES & PEDESTRIANS:
                I       Southbound on:   Route 250                         Westbound on:    Church Street                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Church Street
 TIME OF N                 18       19      20                   PED         22        23      24                   PED          26       27      28                    PED          30        31      32                   PED       GRAND
           R
INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOTAL
                E        RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU     LEFT    TOTAL     AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD     CH       RIGHT     THRU     LEFT     TOTAL    AD    CH
 7:00 to 7:15       1      0        1       0          1                      0        5        1        6                       0        1       1           2                      1         2        0        3                     12
 7:15 to 7:30       2      1        0       0          1                      1        2        1        4                       0        2       1           3                      0         3        1        4                     12
7:30 to 7:45        3      0        1      0           1                      0        8       0        8                        0        1      4           5                       0         1       0         1                     15
7:45 to 8:00        4      0        1      1           2                      0        3       0        3                        1        2      1           4                       1         2       0         3                     12
8:00 to 8:15        5      0        0      1           1                      0        3       0        3                        2        0      1           3                       0         0       0         0                      7
8:15 to 8:30        6      0        0      0           0                      1        5       3        9                        2        0      2           4                       0         0       0         0                     13
 8:30 to 8:45       7      0        0       0          0                      3        1        2        6                       1        2       2           5                      0         0        0        0                     11
 8:45 to 9:00       8      0        0       0          0                      0        7        4       11                       0        0       2           2                      0         0        0        0                     13
P.H. TOTAL                 0        2       2          4     0         0      1       19        3       23      0         0      5        3       8          16     0         0      1         3        0        4      0         0    47
                                                                                 Evening Traffic Count Summary
Intersection of: Church Street @ Route 250                                                                                                                      Municipality: Penfield
Day: Wednesday             Date: 6/14/06                                                                                                                        Period of Count: 4:00pm to 6:00pm
ALL TRAFFIC:
                 Southbound on:       Route 250                         Westbound on:    Church Street                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Church Street
              I
                     2        3          4          1                      6        7       8          5                      10       11      12         9                       14        15      16         13
  TIME OF N                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAND
                R
 INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL
             E
                  RIGHT    THRU        LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL           RIGHT     THRU     LEFT      ROR     TOTAL
 3:00 to 3:15 1                                              0                                                  0                                                  0                                                    0             0
 3:15 to 3:30 2                                              0                                                  0                                                  0                                                    0             0
 3:30 to 3:45 3                                              0                                                  0                                                  0                                                    0             0
 3:45 to 4:00 4                                              0                                                  0                                                  0                                                    0             0
 4:00 to 4:15 5      9        49         19                 77            15        72      25                112            35       43        5                 83              13       39       18                 70            342
 4:15 to 4:30 6     18        83         25                126            20        91      25                136            32       42        8                 82               4       54       10                 68            412
 4:30 to 4:45 7     19        71         20                110            15        78      26                119            27       45       12                 84               6       76       12                 94            407
4:45 to 5:00 8      24       84          22                130            14       105      29                148            28       62       11                101              15       64       11                 90           469
5:00 to 5:15 9      18      110          29                157            24       142      41                207            50       85       15                150               7       95        8                110           624
5:15 to 5:30 10     17      105          26                148            15       114      33                162            27       65        9                101               7       70        8                 85           496
5:30 to 5:45 11     16       89          31                136            23       149      44                216            30       60       12                102               7       72       10                 89           543
 5:45 to 6:00 12    16        57         19                 92            15        84      34                133            35       57        4                 96               6       68        8                 82            403
 6:00 to 6:15 13                                             0                                                  0                                                  0                                                    0             0
 6:15 to 6:30 14                                             0                                                  0                                                  0                                                    0             0
 6:30 to 6:45 15                                             0                                                  0                                                  0                                                    0             0
 6:45 to 7:00 16                                             0                                                  0                                                  0                                                    0             0
P.H. TOTAL          75       388        108         0      571             76      510     147           0    733            135      272      47         0      454              36       301      37           0    374           2132
P.H. FACTOR                                                0.91                                               0.85                                               0.76                                                 0.85          0.85

TRUCKS, BUSES & PEDESTRIANS:
                I    Southbound on:   Route 250                         Westbound on:    Church Street                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Church Street
 TIME OF N              18       19      20                   PED         22        23      24                   PED          26       27      28                    PED          30        31      32                   PED       GRAND
           R
INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                E     RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT     TOTAL     AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD     CH       RIGHT     THRU     LEFT     TOTAL    AD    CH
 3:00 to 3:15    1                                  0                                                0                                                    0                                                   0                       0
 3:15 to 3:30    2                                  0                                                0                                                    0                                                   0                       0
 3:30 to 3:45    3                                  0                                                0                                                    0                                                   0                       0
 3:45 to 4:00    4                                  0                                                0                                                    0                                                   0                       0
 4:00 to 4:15    5      0        0       0          0                      1        1       1        3                        1        0       0          1                       0         0       0         0                       4
 4:15 to 4:30    6      1        1       0          2                      1        1       1        3                        1        0       0          1                       0         0       0         0                       6
 4:30 to 4:45    7      0        0       0          0                      0        1       0        1                        1        1       0          2                       0         0       1         1                       4
4:45 to 5:00     8      0        1       0          1                      0        0       1        1                        1        0       0          1                       0         1       1         2                      5
5:00 to 5:15     9      0        2       0          2                      0        2       1        3                        2        0       0          2                       0         2       0         2                      9
5:15 to 5:30    10      0        3       0          3                      0        0       1        1                        0        0       0          0                       0         0       0         0                      4
5:30 to 5:45    11      0        0       0          0                      0        0       0        0                        1        2       0          3                       0         3       0         3                      6
 5:45 to 6:00   12      0        0       0          0                      0        0       0        0                        1        0       0          1                       0         1       0         1                       2
 6:00 to 6:15   13                                  0                                                0                                                    0                                                   0                       0
 6:15 to 6:30   14                                  0                                                0                                                    0                                                   0                       0
 6:30 to 6:45   15                                  0                                                0                                                    0                                                   0                       0
 6:45 to 7:00   16                                  0                                                0                                                    0                                                   0                       0
P.H. TOTAL              0        6       0          6     0         0      0        2        3       5       0         0      4        2       0          6      0         0      0         6        1        7      0         0     24
                                                                                    Morning Traffic Count Summary
Intersection of: Whitney Road @ Route 250                                                                                                                         Municipality: Penfield
Day: Wednesday            Date: 6/14/06                                                                                                                           Period of Count: 7:00am to 9:00am
ALL TRAFFIC:
                 Southbound on:          Route 250                         Westbound on:    Whitney Road                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Whitney Road
              I
                     2        3             4          1                      6         7      8         5                      10       11      12         9                       14        15     16        13
  TIME OF N                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRAND
                R
 INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
             E
                  RIGHT    THRU           LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT      ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL           RIGHT     THRU    LEFT      ROR     TOTAL
 7:00 to 7:15 1      28       38           27                  93              9      120      1                130              2       45      32                 79               7        26     17                 50            352
 7:15 to 7:30 2      37       63           20                 120             13      142      2                157              5       47      29                 81              12        33     10                 55            413
7:30 to 7:45 3      37       88            26                 151             13      132     4                 149             5       50      52                 107              12       31      21                 64           471
7:45 to 8:00 4      43       68            17                 128             16      127     1                 144             2       55      54                 111              18       39      20                 77           460
8:00 to 8:15 5      40       68            19                 127             15      122     8                 145             6       61      25                  92              9        37      10                 56           420
8:15 to 8:30 6      33       93            27                 153             19      112     7                 138             4       51      12                  67              11       42      18                 71           429
 8:30 to 8:45 7      23       74           23                 120             30       97      6                133              3       45      22                 70              23        44     13                 80            403
 8:45 to 9:00 8      34       78           31                 143             30       77      5                112              2       80      17                 99              19        25     20                 64            418
P.H. TOTAL          153      317           89          0      559             63      493     20           0    576             17      217     143         0      377              50       149     69           0    268           1780
P.H. FACTOR                                                   0.91                                              0.97                                               0.85                                                0.87          0.94

TRUCKS, BUSES & PEDESTRIANS:
                I       Southbound on:   Route 250                         Westbound on:    Whitney Road                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Whitney Road
 TIME OF N                 18       19      20                   PED         22        23     24                   PED          26       27      28                    PED          30        31     32                   PED       GRAND
           R
INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL
                E        RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT     TOTAL    AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD     CH       RIGHT     THRU    LEFT    TOTAL     AD    CH
 7:00 to 7:15       1      0        0       0           0                     0        2       0         2                      1        3       5           9                       1        1       1        3                      14
 7:15 to 7:30       2      5        0       0           5                     0        7       0         7                      4        3       2           9                       1        4       0        5                      26
7:30 to 7:45        3      1        3      5           9                      1        1      1         3                       0        2      0           2                       2         4      1        7                      21
7:45 to 8:00        4      4        4      1           9                      0        3      0         3                       0        2      0           2                       5         6      2        13                     27
8:00 to 8:15        5      2        4      1           7                      0        2      2         4                       1        8      1           10                      2         3      0        5                      26
8:15 to 8:30        6      2        7      3           12                     2        2      0         4                       0        1      1           2                       1        11      1        13                     31
 8:30 to 8:45       7      2        9       2          13                     4        8       0        12                      0        8       3          11                       5        7       1       13                      49
 8:45 to 9:00       8      4        3       4          11                     3        7       0        10                      0        5       1           6                       1        5       3        9                      36
P.H. TOTAL                 9       18      10          37    0         0      3        8       3        14     0         0      1       13       2          16     0         0      10       24       4       38      0         0    105
                                                                                 Evening Traffic Count Summary
Intersection of: Whitney Road @ Route 250                                                                                                                      Municipality: Penfield
Day: Wednesday            Date: 6/14/06                                                                                                                        Period of Count: 4:00pm to 6:00pm
ALL TRAFFIC:
                 Southbound on:       Route 250                         Westbound on:    Whitney Road                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Whitney Road
              I
                     2        3          4          1                      6        7       8         5                      10       11      12         9                       14        15     16        13
  TIME OF N                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRAND
                R
 INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL
             E
                  RIGHT    THRU        LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT      ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL           RIGHT     THRU    LEFT      ROR     TOTAL
 3:00 to 3:15 1                                              0                                                 0                                                  0                                                   0             0
 3:15 to 3:30 2                                              0                                                 0                                                  0                                                   0             0
 3:30 to 3:45 3                                              0                                                 0                                                  0                                                   0             0
 3:45 to 4:00 4                                              0                                                 0                                                  0                                                   0             0
 4:00 to 4:15 5     28       105         55                188            44       58        8               110            12        93      24                129              24        95     36                155            582
 4:15 to 4:30 6     30        65         61                156            34       72        7               113            10        99      19                128              15       110     27                152            549
 4:30 to 4:45 7     12        63         51                126            39       54        8               101             5       112      17                134              15       114     37                166            527
 4:45 to 5:00 8     28        72         38                138            24       60        9                93             7       104      15                126              15       122     25                162            519
5:00 to 5:15 9      28      116          55                199            35       38        4                77             7       104      29                140              15       146     45                206           622
5:15 to 5:30 10     31       80          55                166            47       61       12               120            11       122      18                151              17       131     43                191           628
5:30 to 5:45 11     29       88          67                184            36       62        3               101             5       66       24                 95              22       150     48                220           600
5:45 to 6:00 12     27       79          45                151            21       58        8                87            10       104      22                136              15       112     32                159           533
 6:00 to 6:15 13                                             0                                                 0                                                  0                                                   0             0
 6:15 to 6:30 14                                             0                                                 0                                                  0                                                   0             0
 6:30 to 6:45 15                                             0                                                 0                                                  0                                                   0             0
 6:45 to 7:00 16                                             0                                                 0                                                  0                                                   0             0
P.H. TOTAL         115       363        222         0      700            139      219      27          0    385             33      396      93         0      522              69       539     168          0    776           2383
P.H. FACTOR                                                0.88                                              0.80                                               0.86                                                0.88          0.95

TRUCKS, BUSES & PEDESTRIANS:
                I    Southbound on:   Route 250                         Westbound on:    Whitney Road                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Whitney Road
 TIME OF N              18       19      20                   PED         22        23     24                   PED          26       27      28                    PED          30        31     32                   PED       GRAND
           R
INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL
                E     RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT     TOTAL    AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD     CH       RIGHT     THRU    LEFT    TOTAL     AD    CH
 3:00 to 3:15    1                                  0                                                0                                                   0                                                 0                        0
 3:15 to 3:30    2                                  0                                                0                                                   0                                                 0                        0
 3:30 to 3:45    3                                  0                                                0                                                   0                                                 0                        0
 3:45 to 4:00    4                                  0                                                0                                                   0                                                 0                        0
 4:00 to 4:15    5      1        2       1          4                      2        1       0        3                       1        1       1          3                       2         3       1       6                       16
 4:15 to 4:30    6      1        0       0          1                      2        0       0        2                       0        2       1          3                       2         2       0       4                       10
 4:30 to 4:45    7      0        2       1          3                      1        1       3        5                       0        5       0          5                       2         6       1       9                       22
 4:45 to 5:00    8      0        0       1          1                      0        1       0        1                       0        0       1          1                       1         2       1       4                        7
5:00 to 5:15     9      0        0       0          0                      0        1       0        1                       0        1       1          2                       0         1       0       1                       4
5:15 to 5:30    10      0        0       0          0                      0        3       0        3                       0        3       0          3                       0         1       0       1                       7
5:30 to 5:45    11      1        0       1          2                      0        0       0        0                       0        1       1          2                       2         0       0       2                       6
5:45 to 6:00    12      0        1       0          1                      0        1       0        1                       0        1       1          2                       1         0       0       1                       5
 6:00 to 6:15   13                                  0                                                0                                                   0                                                 0                        0
 6:15 to 6:30   14                                  0                                                0                                                   0                                                 0                        0
 6:30 to 6:45   15                                  0                                                0                                                   0                                                 0                        0
 6:45 to 7:00   16                                  0                                                0                                                   0                                                 0                        0
P.H. TOTAL              1        1       1          3     0         0      0        5       0        5      0         0      0        6       3          9      0         0      3         2       0       5       0         0     22
                                                                                 530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                           File Name      : Rt 441 AM_All Legs
AA




                                                                                                                                                   Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 6/15/2006
                                                                                                                                                   Page No        :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks - Buses
                                Rt 250                                   Rt 441                               Rt 250                                  Rt 441
                              Southbound                                Westbound                          Northbound                               Eastbound
     Start Time    Left Thru Right         Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total   Left Thru Right         Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM      53    84   78             0      215        12 233      41      0     286      34     43      9   0        86        37    44   17             0       98         685
      07:15 AM      61    96   83             0      240        22 276      44      0     342      34     74    10    0       118        59    53   20             0      132         832
      07:30 AM      45 110     86             0      241        22 275      55      0     352      34     69      8   0       111        53    55   18             0      126         830
      07:45 AM      69 107     60             0      236        25 254      68      0     347      41     57      8   0       106        58    77   20             0      155         844
           Total   228 397 307                0      932        81 1038 208         0 1327 143 243              35    0       421       207 229     75             0      511        3191

      08:00 AM      59      78      67        0      204        23    193     74     0    290     29      64      6    0       99        54      75      31        0      160         753
      08:15 AM      59     112      77        0      248        15    208     65     0    288     34      68      6    0      108        51      64      54        0      169         813
      08:30 AM      54      87      81        0      222        30    226     59     0    315     52      63      6    0      121        50      79      44        0      173         831
      08:45 AM      44     105      71        0      220        26    196     58     0    280     29      67      4    0      100        61      80      37        0      178         778
           Total   216     382     296        0      894        94    823    256     0   1173    144     262     22    0      428       216     298     166        0      680        3175

     Grand Total    444     779     603       0    1826        175    1861    464    0   2500     287     505     57   0      849        423     527     241       0    1191         6366
     Apprch %      24.3    42.7       33      0                   7   74.4   18.6    0           33.8    59.5    6.7   0                35.5    44.2    20.2       0
       Total %         7   12.2      9.5      0     28.7        2.7   29.2     7.3   0    39.3     4.5     7.9   0.9   0     13.3         6.6     8.3     3.8      0     18.7
          Cars      419     740     574       0    1733        168    1802    441    0   2411     274     481     53   0      808        396     469     235       0    1100         6052
       % Cars      94.4       95   95.2       0     94.9         96   96.8      95   0    96.4   95.5    95.2     93   0     95.2       93.6       89   97.5       0     92.4         95.1
        Trucks        18      32      26      0       76          2     36      18   0      56       7      19     3   0        29         24      40       5      0       69          230
     % Trucks        4.1     4.1     4.3      0      4.2        1.1    1.9     3.9   0     2.2     2.4     3.8   5.3   0       3.4        5.7     7.6     2.1      0      5.8           3.6
        Buses          7       7       3      0       17          5     23       5   0      33       6       5     1   0        12          3      18       1      0       22            84
      % Buses        1.6     0.9     0.5      0      0.9        2.9    1.2     1.1   0     1.3     2.1       1   1.8   0       1.4        0.7     3.4     0.4      0      1.8           1.3
                                                                                     530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                    Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                            File Name      : Rt 441 AM_All Legs
AA




                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                        Start Date     : 6/15/2006
                                                                                                                                                                        Page No        :2


                                 Rt 250                                       Rt 441                                           Rt 250                                      Rt 441
                               Southbound                                    Westbound                                       Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru                         Right   Peds      App. Total    Left Thru       Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right         Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       61      96      83      0      240  22 276                        44         0       342          34       74     10       0       118       59      53      20        0      132           832
  07:30 AM       45 110          86      0      241  22 275                        55         0        352         34     69        8       0      111        53      55      18        0      126           830
  07:45 AM       69 107          60      0      236  25 254                        68         0      347           41     57        8       0      106        58      77      20        0      155           844
  08:00 AM       59      78      67      0      204  23 193                        74         0      290          29      64        6       0       99        54      75      31        0       160        753
 Total Volume  234 391 296               0      921  92 998                      241          0     1331         138     264       32       0      434       224     260      89        0      573        3259
     % App. Total   25.4    42.5    32.1       0              6.9           75   18.1        0                   31.8    60.8      7.4      0                39.1    45.4    15.5       0
             PHF    .848    .889    .860    .000   .955     .920         .904    .814     .000        .945       .841    .892    .800    .000      .919      .949    .844    .718    .000      .895          .965
             Cars    222     376     280       0    878        87         969     232        0       1288         136     256       30      0       422       210     232       86      0       528         3116
         % Cars     94.9    96.2    94.6       0   95.3     94.6         97.1    96.3        0        96.8       98.6    97.0    93.8       0      97.2      93.8    89.2    96.6       0      92.1          95.6
          Trucks        7      14      15      0      36        1           21       6       0           28          1       5       1      0          7        11      19       2      0         32          103
        % Trucks      3.0     3.6     5.1      0     3.9      1.1          2.1     2.5       0          2.1        0.7     1.9     3.1      0        1.6       4.9     7.3     2.2      0        5.6           3.2
           Buses        5       1       1      0       7        4            8       3       0           15          1       3       1      0          5         3       9       1      0         13            40
        % Buses       2.1     0.3     0.3      0     0.8      4.3          0.8     1.2       0          1.1        0.7     1.1     3.1      0        1.2       1.3     3.5     1.1      0        2.3           1.2

                                                                                                       Rt 250
                                                                                           Out           In         Total
                                                                                            698           878        1576
                                                                                             22            36          58
                                                                                               9            7          16
                                                                                            729           921        1650


                                                                                           280  376              222    0
                                                                                            15   14                 7   0
                                                                                             1     1                5   0
                                                                                           296  391              234    0
                                                                                         Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                       1913


                                       2005




                                                       224
                                          69
                                          23




                                                        11
                                                       210

                                                          3




                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                       Total




                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                             241


                                                                                                                                             232




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                               526


                                                                                                                                                               484
                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                               6




                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                27


                                                                                                  North
                                                                  260
                                                                  232
                                                                   19
                                                                     9

                                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                  998


                                                                                                                                                  969
                                         528


                                         573




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                          32
                                          13




                                                                                                                                                              Rt 441
                                    Rt 441




                                                                                                                                                   21
                                        In




                                                                                                                                                     8




                                                                                                                                                               1331


                                                                                                                                                               1288
                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                              89




                                                                                     Cars
                                                                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                                                  28
                                                              86
                                                               2
                                                               1




                                                                                                                                           Left Peds




                                                                                     Trucks
                                                                                                                                             92


                                                                                                                                             87
                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                               1
                                       1385


                                       1432
                                         37
                                         10




                                                                                     Buses
                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                              1857


                                                                                                                                                              1772
                                                                                                                                                                 30
                                                                                                                                                                 55
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                           136  256    30    0
                                                                                              1    5    1    0
                                                                                              1    3    1    0
                                                                                           138  264    32    0


                                                                                            549           422         971
                                                                                             17             7          24
                                                                                               6            5          11
                                                                                            572           434        1006
                                                                                           Out           In         Total
                                                                                                       Rt 250
                                                                                       530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                      Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                     File Name       : Rt 441 PM_All Legs
AA




                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date      : 6/15/2006
                                                                                                                                                                   Page No         :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks - Buses
                               Route 250                                Route 441                            Route 250                                                 Route 441
                              Southbound                                Westbound                          Northbound                                                  Eastbound
     Start Time    Left Thru Right        Peds   App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                        App. Total   Left Thru Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
      04:00 PM      77 136     53            0      266         35 125      48      0     208      36     83     15    0                      134        87 208     19              0     314          922
      04:15 PM      67 104     52            0      223         36 101      55      0     192      31     89     17    0                      137       111 219     21              0     351          903
      04:30 PM      69    90   56            0      215         35 142      49      0     226      27 101        16    0                      144       104 233     24              0     361          946
      04:45 PM      70 132     59            0      261         44 139      46      0     229      26     90     17    0                      133       103 242     30              0     375          998
           Total   283 462 220               0      965        150 507 198          0     855 120 363            65    0                      548       405 902     94              0    1401         3769

      05:00 PM      72     154     62        0     288          41          118     42        0       201      43      99       19     0      161       100     215        28       0     343          993
      05:15 PM      76     180     64        0     320          30          187     41        0       258      44     111       21     0      176        91     222        22       0     335         1089
      05:30 PM      98     196     68        0     362          39          155     43        0       237      46      80       21     0      147        90     265        24       0     379         1125
      05:45 PM      77     156     66        0     299           0          156     47        0       203      38      78       16     0      132        97     235        22       0     354          988
           Total   323     686    260        0    1269         110          616    173        0       899     171     368       77     0      616       378     937        96       0    1411         4195

     Grand Total    606    1148    480       0    2234         260          1123    371       0      1754      291     731     142     0    1164         783    1839      190       0    2812         7964
     Apprch %      27.1    51.4   21.5       0                14.8            64   21.2       0                  25   62.8    12.2     0                27.8    65.4       6.8      0
       Total %       7.6   14.4       6      0     28.1         3.3         14.1     4.7      0         22      3.7     9.2     1.8    0     14.6         9.8   23.1       2.4      0     35.3
          Cars      590    1131    468       0    2189         257          1093    355       0      1705      283     721     140     0    1144         772    1805      185       0    2762         7800
       % Cars      97.4    98.5   97.5       0       98       98.8          97.3   95.7       0       97.2    97.3    98.6    98.6     0     98.3       98.6    98.2     97.4       0     98.2         97.9
        Trucks        15     16      11      0       42           2           22      15      0         39        7      10       2    0       19          11     28         4      0       43          143
     % Trucks        2.5    1.4     2.3      0      1.9         0.8            2       4      0        2.2      2.4     1.4     1.4    0      1.6         1.4    1.5       2.1      0      1.5           1.8
        Buses          1      1       1      0        3           1            8       1      0         10        1       0       0    0        1           0      6         1      0        7            21
      % Buses        0.2    0.1     0.2      0      0.1         0.4          0.7     0.3      0        0.6      0.3       0       0    0      0.1           0    0.3       0.5      0      0.2           0.3


                                                                                                     Route 250
                                                                                            Out         In     Total
                                                                                            1848       2189     4037
                                                                                              36          42      78
                                                                                                1          3       4
                                                                                            1885       2234     4119


                                                                                             468 1131         590    0
                                                                                              11   16          15    0
                                                                                               1     1           1   0
                                                                                             480 1148         606    0
                                                                                           Right Thru        Left Peds
                                     4606


                                     4706




                                                          783
                                        83
                                        17



                                                          772
                                                           11
                                                             0




                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                     Total




                                                         Left




                                                                                                                                        371 1123


                                                                                                                                        355 1093


                                                                                                                                                          2587


                                                                                                                                                          2535
                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                         15
                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                            45
                                                                                                                                                              7




                                                                                                     North
                                                                190 1839
                                                                185 1805
                                                                      28
                                                                        6

                                                         Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                          Route 441
                                   Route 441

                                       2762


                                       2812
                                          43
                                           7




                                                                                            6/15/2006 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                              22
                                        In




                                                                                                                                                8




                                                                                            6/15/2006 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                            1754


                                                                                                                                                            1705
                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                               39
                                                                  4
                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       260


                                                                                                                                       257




                                                                                            Cars
                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                          2
                                     1844


                                     1894
                                       40
                                       10




                                                                                            Trucks
                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0




                                                                                            Buses
                                                                                                                                                          4341


                                                                                                                                                          4240
                                                                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                                                                             84
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                            283  721   140    0
                                                                                               7  10     2    0
                                                                                               1    0    0    0
                                                                                            291  731   142    0


                                                                                            1573       1144     2717
                                                                                              22          19      41
                                                                                                3          1       4
                                                                                            1598       1164     2762
                                                                                            Out         In     Total
                                                                                                     Route 250
                                                                                      530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                     Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                            File Name      : Rt 441 PM_All Legs
AA




                                                                                                                                                                         Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date     : 6/15/2006
                                                                                                                                                                         Page No        :2


                                Route 250                                     Route 441                                      Route 250                                    Route 441
                               Southbound                                     Westbound                                      Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru                          Right   Peds      App. Total    Left Thru       Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right         Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:30 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM       70 132          59      0      261  44 139                         46         0       229          26     90       17       0      133       103     242      30        0      375         998
  05:00 PM       72 154          62      0      288  41 118                        42          0       201          43     99       19       0      161       100     215      28        0      343         993
  05:15 PM       76 180          64      0      320  30 187                        41          0        258         44    111       21       0       176       91     222      22        0      335        1089
  05:30 PM       98     196      68      0      362  39 155                        43          0       237          46     80       21       0      147        90     265      24        0       379        1125
 Total Volume  316 662 253               0    1231 154 599                        172          0       925        159     380       78       0      617       384     944     104        0    1432         4205
     % App. Total   25.7    53.8    20.6       0             16.6         64.8    18.6        0                   25.8    61.6    12.6       0                26.8    65.9      7.3      0
             PHF    .806    .844    .930    .000    .850     .875         .801    .935     .000        .896       .864    .856    .929    .000      .876      .932    .891    .867    .000      .945          .934
             Cars    308     657     248       0   1213       153          588     165        0         906        156     377       77      0       610       377     929     100       0     1406          4135
         % Cars     97.5    99.2    98.0       0    98.5     99.4         98.2    95.9        0        97.9       98.1    99.2    98.7       0      98.9      98.2    98.4    96.2       0      98.2          98.3
          Trucks        8       5       5      0       18        1           11       7       0           19          3       3       1      0          7         7      13       3      0         23            67
        % Trucks      2.5     0.8     2.0      0      1.5      0.6          1.8     4.1       0          2.1        1.9     0.8     1.3      0        1.1       1.8     1.4     2.9      0        1.6           1.6
           Buses        0       0       0      0        0        0            0       0       0            0          0       0       0      0          0         0       2       1      0          3             3
        % Buses         0       0       0      0        0        0            0       0       0            0          0       0       0      0          0         0     0.2     1.0      0        0.2           0.1

                                                                                                     Route 250
                                                                                            Out         In     Total
                                                                                             919       1213     2132
                                                                                              17          18      35
                                                                                                0          0       0
                                                                                             936       1231     2167


                                                                                            248  657              308    0
                                                                                              5     5                8   0
                                                                                              0     0                0   0
                                                                                            253  662              316    0
                                                                                          Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                       2398


                                       2443




                                                        384
                                          42
                                           3



                                                        377
                                                           7
                                                           0




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                       Total




                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                              172


                                                                                                                                              165


                                                                                                                                                               1338


                                                                                                                                                               1314
                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                7




                                                                                                                                                                 22
                                                                                                                                                                   2



                                                                                                   North
                                                                   944
                                                                   929
                                                                    13
                                                                      2

                                                       Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                               Route 441
                                    Route 441




                                                                                                                                                   599


                                                                                                                                                   588
                                        1406


                                        1432
                                            3




                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                           23




                                                                                                                                                    11
                                         In




                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                   925


                                                                                                                                                                   906
                                                              104




                                                                                      Cars
                                                                                                                                                                    19
                                                              100
                                                                3
                                                                1




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                             154


                                                                                                                                             153




                                                                                      Trucks
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                1
                                       1011
                                        992
                                         19
                                           0




                                                                                      Buses
                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                               2263


                                                                                                                                                               2220
                                                                                                                                                                  41
                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                            156  377    77    0
                                                                                               3    3    1    0
                                                                                               0    0    0    0
                                                                                            159  380    78    0


                                                                                             910         610    1520
                                                                                                9          7      16
                                                                                                1          0       1
                                                                                             920         617    1537
                                                                                            Out         In     Total
                                                                                                     Route 250
                                                                     PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUME SUMMARY
                                                       FRA Engineering * 530 Summit Point Drive, Rochester, NY 14607 * 359-0280


                                                      Intersection of: Whalen Road @ Route 250
       Date: 6/14/06                     Day: Wednesday                                                           DESCRIPTION: FRA Count

                                                                 ALL TRAFFIC & PEDESTRIANS
                AM Peak: 7:30am to 8:30am                                                                                             PM Peak: 4:30pm to 5:30pm
                                    AD    0    PED     CH        0                                                                               AD    0    PED     CH        0

                                                                             Route 250




                                                                                                                                                                                         Route 250
                                         566



                                                      471




                                                                                                                                                      521




                                                                                                                                                                   491
                                         518




                                                                                                                                                      478
                                    45




                                                                                                                                                 38
                                               3




                                                                                                                                                            5
        Whalen Road                                                                             Whalen Road                  Whalen Road                                                                    Whalen Road
  AD




                                                                                                               AD

                                                                                                                       AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AD
                                                                                         12                                                                                                          17
                298                                                                    103          195                         284                                                                  75         148
  0




                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                         80                                                                                                          56
  PED




                                                                                                               PED

                                                                                                                       PED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PED
                              40                                                                                                           34
  CH




                                                                                                               CH

                                                                                                                       CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CH
                255           21                                                                    39                          378        72                                                                   148
                             194                                                                                                           272
  0




                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                     KEY
                                                150
                                                      419




                                                                                                                                                             171
                                                                                                                                                                   440
 LEG    P.H.F. R.O.R.                                                                                                                                                                                     LEG   P.H.F. R.O.R.
                                                            15




                                                                                                                                                                         71
  N     0.94          0      TRUE
                                                                                                          P.H.F. = PEAK HOUR FACTOR                                                                        N    0.99       0      TRUE


                                                                                                            R.O.R. = RIGHTS ON RED
                                         792



                                                      584




                                                                                                                                                      806




                                                                                                                                                                   682
  S     0.85          0                                                                                                                                                                                    S    0.81       0
                                                                           Route 250




                                                                                                                                                                                       Route 250
                             TRUE                                                                                                                                                                                                 TRUE


  E     0.77          0      TRUE
                                                                                                                  Pedestrians                                                                              E    0.62       0      TRUE


 W      0.90          0      TRUE   AD    0    PED     CH        0                                            CH = CHILD (0 to 13)               AD    0    PED     CH        0                            W    0.79       0      TRUE


INTER 0.91             -                                                                                     AD = ADULT (13 & UP)                                                                        INTER 0.87         -



                                                                                  TRUCKS & BUSES ONLY
                AM Peak: 7:30am to 8:30am                                                                                             PM Peak: 4:30pm to 5:30pm
                                                                      Route 250




                                                                                                                                                                                  Route 250
                                         33



                                                      17




                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                      7
                                         26
                                    6


                                               1




                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                            1




        Whalen Road                                                                           Whalen Road                    Whalen Road                                                                  Whalen Road

                                                                                         1                                                                                                           0
                24                                                                       7          10                           5                                                                   0           3
                                                                                         2                                                                                                           3


                               3                                                                                                            1
                16             2                                                                     6                           4          0                                                                    3
                              11                                                                                                            3


 LEG MVMT %T+B                                                                                                                                                                                            LEG MVMT %T+B
                                                11
                                                      13




                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                            3




                                                                                                                                                             5


                                                                                                                                                                         2




        Left         33.3%                                                                                                                                                                                       Left     20.0%
  N                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                      Route 250




        Thru         5.0%                                                                                                                                                                                        Thru     1.3%
        Right        13.3%                                                                                                                                                                                       Right    0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                  Route 250




        Left         7.3%                                                                                                                                                                                        Left     2.9%
                                         39



                                                      27




                                                                                                                                                      12




                                                                                                                                                                   17




  S     Thru         3.1%                                                                                                                                                                                  S     Thru     2.3%
        Right        20.0%                                                                                                                                                                                       Right    2.8%
        Left         2.5%                                                                                                                                                                                        Left     5.4%
  E     Thru         6.8%                                                                                                                                                                                  E     Thru     0.0%
        Right        8.3%                                                                                                                                                                                        Right    0.0%
        Left         7.5%                                                                                                                                                                                        Left     2.9%
 W      Thru         9.5%                                                                                                                                                                                  W     Thru     0.0%
        Right        5.7%                                                                                                                                                                                        Right    1.1%
T&B = TRUCKS & BUSES                                                                                                                                                                                  T&B = TRUCKS & BUSES
                                                                                    Morning Traffic Count Summary
Intersection of: Whalen Road @ Route 250                                                                                                                         Municipality: Penfield
Day: Wednesday            Date: 6/14/06                                                                                                                          Period of Count: 7:00am to 9:00am
ALL TRAFFIC:
                 Southbound on:          Route 250                         Westbound on:    Whalen Road                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Whalen Road
              I
                     2        3             4          1                      6         7      8        5                      10       11      12         9                       14        15     16        13
  TIME OF N                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRAND
                R
 INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL
             E
                  RIGHT    THRU           LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT     ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL           RIGHT     THRU    LEFT      ROR    TOTAL
 7:00 to 7:15 1      3        96            0                  99              6       17     24                47              4       93      30                127              22        3       4                29            302
 7:15 to 7:30 2      4       114            3                 121              4       25     20                49              4       83      39                126              35        7      11                53            349
7:30 to 7:45 3      14       137           0                  151             5       24      19                48             2       114     54                 170              56        5      10                71           440
7:45 to 8:00 4      8        117           0                  125             4       28      12                44             0       135     36                 171              44        8      13                65           405
8:00 to 8:15 5      12       133           0                  145             2       19      19                40             6        90     31                 127              47        4      8                 59           371
8:15 to 8:30 6      11       131           3                  145             1       32      30                63             7        80     29                 116              47        4      9                 60           384
 8:30 to 8:45 7     11        84            0                  95              0       21     10                31              4       79      36                119              42        2      13                57            302
 8:45 to 9:00 8      8        93            1                 102              1       14      9                24              6       67      20                 93              60        7       8                75            294
P.H. TOTAL          45       518            3          0      566             12      103     80          0    195             15      419     150         0      584             194       21      40          0    255           1600
P.H. FACTOR                                                   0.94                                             0.77                                               0.85                                               0.90          0.91

TRUCKS, BUSES & PEDESTRIANS:
                I       Southbound on:   Route 250                         Westbound on:    Whalen Road                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Whalen Road
 TIME OF N                 18       19      20                   PED         22        23     24                  PED          26       27      28                    PED          30        31     32                  PED       GRAND
           R
INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL
                E        RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT    TOTAL    AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD     CH       RIGHT     THRU    LEFT    TOTAL    AD    CH
 7:00 to 7:15       1      1        3       0           4                     2        0       0        2                      0        3       2           5                       0        0       0        0                    11
 7:15 to 7:30       2      0        5       1           6                     0        0       1        1                      1        3       4           8                       3        1       1        5                    20
7:30 to 7:45        3      5        2      0           7                      1        2      0        3                       0        2      3           5                       1         0      2        3                     18
7:45 to 8:00        4      0        3      0           3                      0        2      0        2                       0        3      2           5                       3         2      0        5                     15
8:00 to 8:15        5      0       13      0           13                     0        0      1        1                       2        3      5           10                      3         0      1        4                     28
8:15 to 8:30        6      1        8      1           10                     0        3      1        4                       1        5      1           7                       4         0      0        4                     25
 8:30 to 8:45       7      1        7       0           8                     0        0       0        0                      1        4       3           8                       1        0       0        1                    17
 8:45 to 9:00       8      0        3       0           3                     0        0       1        1                      1        2       2           5                       1        0       1        2                    11
P.H. TOTAL                 6       26       1          33    0         0      1        7       2       10     0         0      3       13      11          27     0         0      11        2       3       16     0         0    86
                                                                                 Evening Traffic Count Summary
Intersection of: Whalen Road @ Route 250                                                                                                                      Municipality: Penfield
Day: Wednesday            Date: 6/14/06                                                                                                                       Period of Count: 4:00pm to 6:00pm
ALL TRAFFIC:
                 Southbound on:       Route 250                         Westbound on:    Whalen Road                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Whalen Road
              I
                     2        3          4          1                      6        7       8        5                      10       11      12         9                       14        15     16        13
  TIME OF N                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRAND
                R
 INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL
             E
                  RIGHT    THRU        LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT     ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL           RIGHT     THRU    LEFT      ROR    TOTAL
 3:00 to 3:15 1                                              0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
 3:15 to 3:30 2                                              0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
 3:30 to 3:45 3                                              0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
 3:45 to 4:00 4                                              0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
 4:00 to 4:15 5      5        83         7                  95             1        14      8                23             21       70      29                120              44       15       8                67            305
 4:15 to 4:30 6                                              0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
4:30 to 4:45 7       9      122          1                 132             4       17      10                31            13       94       46                153              46       17       7                70           386
4:45 to 5:00 8       8      117          1                 126             2       15      14                31            21       106      37                164              68       17      10                95           416
5:00 to 5:15 9       9      120          2                 131             4        6      16                26            13       104      38                155              91       20       8               119           431
5:15 to 5:30 10     12      119          1                 132             7       37      16                60            24       136      50                210              67       18       9                94           496
 5:30 to 5:45 11     8        42         4                  54             3       14      19                36            17       109      62                188              57       24      13                94            372
 5:45 to 6:00 12    11        57         1                  69             6       20      12                38            19        84      43                146              58       22      14                94            347
 6:00 to 6:15 13                                             0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
 6:15 to 6:30 14                                             0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
 6:30 to 6:45 15                                             0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
 6:45 to 7:00 16                                             0                                                0                                                  0                                                  0             0
P.H. TOTAL          38       478         5          0      521             17      75       56         0    148             71      440     171         0      682             272       72       34         0    378           1729
P.H. FACTOR                                                0.99                                             0.62                                               0.81                                               0.79          0.87

TRUCKS, BUSES & PEDESTRIANS:
                I    Southbound on:   Route 250                         Westbound on:    Whalen Road                     Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Whalen Road
 TIME OF N              18       19      20                   PED         22        23     24                  PED          26       27      28                    PED          30        31     32                  PED       GRAND
           R
INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL
                E     RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT    TOTAL    AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD     CH       RIGHT     THRU    LEFT    TOTAL    AD    CH
 3:00 to 3:15    1                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
 3:15 to 3:30    2                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
 3:30 to 3:45    3                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
 3:45 to 4:00    4                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
 4:00 to 4:15    5      0        0       0          0                      0        0       0       0                       0        1       0           1                      1         0       1       2                      3
 4:15 to 4:30    6                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
4:30 to 4:45     7      0        0       0          0                      0        0       0       0                       1        2       1          4                       1         0       1       2                      6
4:45 to 5:00     8      0        2       0          2                      0        0       0       0                       1        3       1          5                       1         0       0       1                      8
5:00 to 5:15     9      0        0       0          0                      0        0       1       1                       0        1       1          2                       1         0       0       1                      4
5:15 to 5:30    10      0        4       1          5                      0        0       2       2                       0        4       2          6                       0         0       0       0                     13
 5:30 to 5:45   11      0        2       0          2                      0        0       0       0                       1        2       0           3                      0         0       1       1                      6
 5:45 to 6:00   12      0        2       0          2                      0        2       0       2                       0        2       2           4                      1         0       0       1                      9
 6:00 to 6:15   13                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
 6:15 to 6:30   14                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
 6:30 to 6:45   15                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
 6:45 to 7:00   16                                  0                                               0                                                    0                                                0                      0
P.H. TOTAL              0        6       1          7     0         0      0        0       3       3      0         0      2       10       5          17     0         0      3         0       1       4      0         0    31
                                                                 PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUME SUMMARY
                                                      FRA Engineering * 530 Summit Point Drive, Rochester, NY 14607 * 359-0280


                                                      Intersection of: Atlantic Ave @ Route 250
      Date: 6/14/06                       Day: Wednesday                                                        DESCRIPTION: FRA Count

                                                             ALL TRAFFIC & PEDESTRIANS
            AM Peak: 7:15am to 8:15am                                                                                                    PM Peak: 5:00pm to 6:00pm
                                    AD     0    PED    CH        0                                                                                  AD    0    PED    CH        0




                                                                            Route 250




                                                                                                                                                                                           Route 250
                                          544



                                                      487




                                                                                                                                                         581



                                                                                                                                                                     664
                                    103
                                          405




                                                                                                                                                         511
                                                36




                                                                                                                                                    25


                                                                                                                                                               45
        Atlantic Ave                                                                           Atlantic Ave                    Atlantic Ave                                                                   Atlantic Ave
  AD




                                                                                                               AD

                                                                                                                      AD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AD
                                                                                        33                                                                                                             25
                472                                                                   293          376                             263                                                               155          209
  0




                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                        50                                                                                                             29
  PED




                                                                                                               PED

                                                                                                                      PED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PED
                              41                                                                                                              62
  CH




                                                                                                               CH

                                                                                                                      CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CH
                152           80                                                                   134                             441        282                                                                 384
                              31                                                                                                              97
  0




                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                     KEY
                                                      413




                                                                                                                                                                     577
 LEG P.H.F. R.O.R.                                                                                                                                                                                          LEG P.H.F. R.O.R.
                                                 76


                                                            18




                                                                                                                                                                83


                                                                                                                                                                           57
  N     0.90          0      TRUE
                                                                                                         P.H.F. = PEAK HOUR FACTOR                                                                           N     0.87       0     TRUE


                                                                                                           R.O.R. = RIGHTS ON RED
                                          486



                                                      507




                                                                                                                                                         637



                                                                                                                                                                     717
  S     0.87          0                                                                                                                                                                                      S     0.92       0
                                                                          Route 250




                                                                                                                                                                                         Route 250
                             TRUE                                                                                                                                                                                                   TRUE


  E     0.87          0      TRUE
                                                                                                                 Pedestrians                                                                                 E     0.82       0     TRUE


 W      0.79          0      TRUE   AD     0    PED    CH        0                                           CH = CHILD (0 to 13)                   AD    0    PED    CH        0                           W      0.84       0     TRUE


INTER 0.95             -                                                                                    AD = ADULT (13 & UP)                                                                        INTER 0.90            -



                                                                             TRUCKS & BUSES ONLY
            AM Peak: 7:15am to 8:15am                                                                                                    PM Peak: 5:00pm to 6:00pm
                                                                     Route 250




                                                                                                                                                                                    Route 250
                                          18




                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                          14
                                    1


                                                3




                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                         9
                                                                                                                                                               1




        Atlantic Ave                                                                         Atlantic Ave                      Atlantic Ave                                                                 Atlantic Ave

                                                                                        0                                                                                                              0
                 1                                                                      0            0                              0                                                                  0            0
                                                                                        0                                                                                                              0


                               7                                                                                                               1
                22             6                                                                     9                             17         15                                                                   16
                               9                                                                                                               1


 LEG MVMT %T+B                                                                                                                                                                                              LEG MVMT %T+B
                                                 0
                                                      0
                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                           0




        Left         8.3%                                                                                                                                                                                          Left      2.2%
  N                                                                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                     Route 250




        Thru         3.5%                                                                                                                                                                                          Thru      1.8%
        Right        1.0%                                                                                                                                                                                          Right     0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                    Route 250




        Left         0.0%                                                                                                                                                                                          Left      0.0%
                                          23




                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                     0




  S     Thru         0.0%                                                                                                                                                                                    S     Thru      0.0%
        Right        0.0%                                                                                                                                                                                          Right     0.0%
        Left         0.0%                                                                                                                                                                                          Left      0.0%
  E     Thru         0.0%                                                                                                                                                                                    E     Thru      0.0%
        Right        0.0%                                                                                                                                                                                          Right     0.0%
        Left         17.1%                                                                                                                                                                                         Left      1.6%
 W      Thru         7.5%                                                                                                                                                                                   W      Thru      5.3%
        Right        29.0%                                                                                                                                                                                         Right     1.0%
T&B = TRUCKS & BUSES                                                                                                                                                                                    T&B = TRUCKS & BUSES
                                                                                    Morning Traffic Count Summary
Intersection of: Atlantic Ave @ Route 250                                                                                                                           Municipality: Penfield
Day: Wednesday             Date: 6/14/06                                                                                                                            Period of Count: 7:00am to 9:00am
ALL TRAFFIC:
                 Southbound on:          Route 250                         Westbound on:    Atlantic Ave                       Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Atlantic Ave
              I
                     2         3            4          1                      6         7       8           5                     10       11      12         9                       14        15       16       13
  TIME OF N                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GRAND
                R
 INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL
             E
                  RIGHT    THRU           LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU     LEFT         ROR   TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL           RIGHT     THRU     LEFT         ROR   TOTAL
 7:00 to 7:15 1      4        85            7                  96              4       58      12                  74              7       94     12                 113               8       15        5                  28            311
7:15 to 7:30 2      37        78           26                 141             7       80       11                  98             4       106     19                 129              5        21       5                   31           399
7:30 to 7:45 3      29       119           3                  151             4       93       11                 108             2       108     16                 126              4        18       8                   30           415
7:45 to 8:00 4      20        87           3                  110             14      65       14                  93             6        78     22                 106              11       26       11                  48           357
8:00 to 8:15 5      17       121           4                  142             8       55       14                  77             6       121     19                 146              11       15       17                  43           408
 8:15 to 8:30 6      20       90            3                 113             11       54      13                  78              5       91     18                 114              13       17       14                  44            349
 8:30 to 8:45 7      8        78            4                  90              4       31       9                  44              2       78     20                 100               7       21        4                  32            266
 8:45 to 9:00 8      20       71            7                  98              5       47      12                  64              3      113     21                 137               7       12        7                  26            325
P.H. TOTAL          103      405           36          0      544             33      293      50           0     376             18      413     76          0      507              31       80       41           0     152           1579
P.H. FACTOR                                                   0.90                                                0.87                                               0.87                                                  0.79          0.95

TRUCKS, BUSES & PEDESTRIANS:
                I       Southbound on:   Route 250                         Westbound on:    Atlantic Ave                       Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Atlantic Ave
 TIME OF N                 18       19      20                   PED         22        23       24                   PED          26       27      28                    PED          30        31       32                   PED       GRAND
           R
INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL
                E        RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU     LEFT     TOTAL     AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD     CH       RIGHT     THRU     LEFT     TOTAL     AD    CH
 7:00 to 7:15       1      1        0       0           1                     0        0        0        0                        0        0       0          0                       1         1        0         2                      3
7:15 to 7:30        2      0        3      1           4                      0        0       0         0                        0        0      0           0                       0         1       3         4                       8
7:30 to 7:45        3      0        3      2           5                      0        0       0         0                        0        0      0           0                       2         1       2         5                      10
7:45 to 8:00        4      1        1      0           2                      0        0       0         0                        0        0      0           0                       1         2       1         4                       6
8:00 to 8:15        5      0        7      0           7                      0        0       0         0                        0        0      0           0                       6         2       1         9                      16
 8:15 to 8:30       6      0        3       2           5                     0        0        0        0                        0        0       0          0                       2         3        0         5                     10
 8:30 to 8:45       7      0        2       2           4                     0        0        0        0                        0        0       0          0                       1         1        0         2                      6
 8:45 to 9:00       8      1        3       0           4                     0        0        0        0                        0        0       0          0                       0         4        0         4                      8
P.H. TOTAL                 1       14       3          18    0         0      0        0        0        0       0         0      0        0       0          0      0         0      9         6        7        22      0         0    40
                                                                                 Evening Traffic Count Summary
Intersection of: Atlantic Ave @ Route 250                                                                                                                        Municipality: Penfield
Day: Wednesday             Date: 6/14/06                                                                                                                         Period of Count: 4:00pm to 6:00pm
ALL TRAFFIC:
                 Southbound on:       Route 250                         Westbound on:    Atlantic Ave                       Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Atlantic Ave
              I
                     2        3          4          1                      6        7        8        5                        10       11      12         9                       14        15       16       13
  TIME OF N                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRAND
                R
 INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL
                                                                                             8
             E
                  RIGHT    THRU        LEFT       ROR     TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU     LEFT         ROR   TOTAL          RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       ROR     TOTAL           RIGHT     THRU     LEFT         ROR   TOTAL
 3:00 to 3:15 1                                              0                                                   0                                                  0                                                     0             0
 3:15 to 3:30 2                                              0                                                   0                                                  0                                                     0             0
 3:30 to 3:45 3                                              0                                                   0                                                  0                                                     0             0
 3:45 to 4:00 4                                              0                                                   0                                                  0                                                     0             0
 4:00 to 4:15 5     21        52         19                 92             9       20        3                  32            18        93       9                120               6       68       11                  85            329
 4:15 to 4:30 6     13        71         23                107             10      31        7                  48            15        98      12                125              22       28       27                  77            357
 4:30 to 4:45 7      5        98          7                110             12      27        7                  46            15        95      10                120              20       35       24                  79            355
 4:45 to 5:00 8      7        88          5                100             11      19       12                  42            12       112      17                141              22       58       19                  99            382
5:00 to 5:15 9      5       119           6                130             1       22        9                  32            13       130      17                160              19       72       13                 104           426
5:15 to 5:30 10     8       140          19                167             9       31       10                  50            11       140      24                175              23       64       13                 100           492
5:30 to 5:45 11     4       140           4                148             8       50        6                  64            19       150      26                195              33       82       17                 132           539
5:45 to 6:00 12     8       112          16                136             7       52        4                  63            14       157      16                187              22       64       19                 105           491
 6:00 to 6:15 13                                             0                                                   0                                                  0                                                     0             0
 6:15 to 6:30 14                                             0                                                   0                                                  0                                                     0             0
 6:30 to 6:45 15                                             0                                                   0                                                  0                                                     0             0
 6:45 to 7:00 16                                             0                                                   0                                                  0                                                     0             0
P.H. TOTAL          25       511         45         0      581             25      155      29           0     209             57      577      83         0      717              97       282      62           0     441           1948
P.H. FACTOR                                                0.87                                                0.82                                               0.92                                                  0.84          0.90

TRUCKS, BUSES & PEDESTRIANS:
                I    Southbound on:   Route 250                         Westbound on:    Atlantic Ave                       Northbound on:   Route 250                          Eastbound on:     Atlantic Ave
 TIME OF N              18       19      20                   PED         22        23       24                   PED          26       27      28                    PED          30        31       32                   PED       GRAND
           R
INTERVAL T                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL
                E     RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU     LEFT     TOTAL     AD    CH       RIGHT    THRU    LEFT       TOTAL   AD     CH       RIGHT     THRU     LEFT     TOTAL     AD    CH
 3:00 to 3:15    1                                   0                                                0                                                    0                                                    0                      0
 3:15 to 3:30    2                                   0                                                0                                                    0                                                    0                      0
 3:30 to 3:45    3                                   0                                                0                                                    0                                                    0                      0
 3:45 to 4:00    4                                   0                                                0                                                    0                                                    0                      0
 4:00 to 4:15    5      0        0       0           0                                                0                                                    0                       0        1        0          1                      1
 4:15 to 4:30    6      0        4       2           6                                                0                                                    0                       3        4        2          9                     15
 4:30 to 4:45    7      0        5       1           6                                                0                                                    0                       2        1        3          6                     12
 4:45 to 5:00    8      1        7       2          10                                                0                                                    0                       5        14       1         20                     30
5:00 to 5:15     9      0        2       1          3                                                 0                                                    0                       1        8        0         9                      12
5:15 to 5:30    10      0        3       0          3                                                 0                                                    0                       0        2        0         0                       3
5:30 to 5:45    11      0        2       0          2                                                 0                                                    0                       0        0        1         1                       3
5:45 to 6:00    12      0        2       0          2                                                 0                                                    0                       0        5        0         5                       7
 6:00 to 6:15   13                                   0                                                0                                                    0                                                    0                      0
 6:15 to 6:30   14                                   0                                                0                                                    0                                                    0                      0
 6:30 to 6:45   15                                   0                                                0                                                    0                                                    0                      0
 6:45 to 7:00   16                                   0                                                0                                                    0                                                    0                      0
P.H. TOTAL              0        9       1          10    0         0      0        0        0        0       0         0      0        0       0          0      0         0      1        15        1        15      0         0    25
                                                                   FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                              530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                               Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                              Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                  Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                                  File Name       : Plank AM
AA




                                                                                                                                                  Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date      : 6/14/2006
                                                                                                                                                  Page No         :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted - Trucks - Buses
                                Rt 250                                  Plank Rd                             RT250                                   Plank Rd
                              Southbound                               Westbound                           Northbound                               Eastbound
     Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM        2      82     0    0        84          4      28      7     0      39       2     80     24    0       106         15       8      1   0       24         253
      07:15 AM        1      83     1    0        85          5      27     18     0      50       5     86     21    0       112         22      16      2   0       40         287
      07:30 AM        2      96     4    0       102          7      29     15     0      51       1 105        31    0       137         23      13      3   0       39         329
      07:45 AM        1      96     3    0       100          4      36      9     0      49       3 132        32    0       167         21      14      2   0       37         353
           Total      6    357      8    0       371         20    120      49     0     189      11 403 108          0       522         81      51      8   0      140        1222

      08:00 AM        2    106       3    0      111          6      24     12     0      42      2    119       23    0      144         27     12      3    0       42         339
      08:15 AM        1     89       4    0       94          4      29      8     0      41      4     92       17    0      113         21     14      1    0       36         284
      08:30 AM        2     79       1    0       82          7      17      8     0      32      5     82       19    0      106          9      2      6    0       17         237
      08:45 AM        3     58       2    0       63          6      29     11     0      46      4     85       26    0      115         18      4      3    0       25         249
           Total      8    332      10    0      350         23      99     39     0     161     15    378       85    0      478         75     32     13    0      120        1109

     Grand Total     14     689      18   0      721         43     219      88    0     350      26    781     193    0    1000         156      83     21   0      260        2331
      Apprch %      1.9    95.6     2.5   0                12.3    62.6    25.1    0             2.6   78.1    19.3    0                   60   31.9    8.1   0
       Total %      0.6    29.6     0.8   0     30.9        1.8      9.4    3.8    0       15    1.1   33.5      8.3   0     42.9         6.7    3.6    0.9   0     11.2
      Unshifted      13     660      15   0      688         34     210      82    0     326      23    745     185    0      953        147      68     14   0      229        2196
     % Unshifted   92.9    95.8    83.3   0     95.4       79.1    95.9    93.2    0    93.1    88.5   95.4    95.9    0     95.3       94.2    81.9   66.7   0     88.1         94.2
        Trucks        1       21      1   0        23         4        5      0    0        9      0      29       7   0        36          8      9      6   0        23          91
      % Trucks      7.1        3    5.6   0       3.2       9.3      2.3      0    0      2.6      0     3.7     3.6   0       3.6        5.1   10.8   28.6   0       8.8         3.9
         Buses        0        8      2   0        10         5        4      6    0       15      3       7       1   0        11          1      6      1   0         8          44
      % Buses         0      1.2   11.1   0       1.4      11.6      1.8    6.8    0      4.3   11.5     0.9     0.5   0       1.1        0.6    7.2    4.8   0       3.1         1.9
                                                                 FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                                 530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                  Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                                 Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                     Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                                              File Name           : Plank AM
AA




                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date          : 6/14/2006
                                                                                                                                                                 Page No             :2

                              Rt 250                         Plank Rd                                                     RT250                                     Plank Rd
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                               App. Total    Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM         1     83       1      0       85   5   27     18   0                              50         5     86     21      0       112         22     16       2      0          40         287
  07:30 AM         2     96       4      0      102   7   29     15   0                              51         1    105     31      0       137         23     13       3      0          39         329
  07:45 AM         1     96       3      0      100   4   36      9   0                            49           3    132     32      0        167        21     14      2       0          37         353
  08:00 AM         2 106          3      0      111   6   24     12   0                            42           2    119     23      0       144         27     12      3       0          42       339
 Total Volume      6 381         11      0      398  22 116      54   0                           192          11    442    107      0       560         93     55     10       0       158        1308
     % App. Total     1.5   95.7     2.8      0           11.5         60.4   28.1       0                      2    78.9   19.1      0                58.9    34.8     6.3      0
             PHF    .750    .899   .688    .000   .896    .786         .806   .750    .000        .941       .550    .837   .836   .000      .838      .861    .859   .833    .000      .940          .926
        Unshifted       5    367       9      0    381      17          112     51       0         180         10     418    105      0       533        88      42       6      0       136         1230
     % Unshifted
        Trucks         1      9      1       0     11       3            2      0       0            5          0      17     2      0         19         4       7      3      0         14            49
      % Trucks      16.7    2.4    9.1       0    2.8    13.6          1.7      0       0          2.6          0     3.8   1.9      0        3.4       4.3    12.7   30.0      0        8.9           3.7
         Buses         0      5      1       0      6       2            2      3       0            7          1       7     0      0          8         1       6      1      0          8            29
      % Buses          0    1.3    9.1       0    1.5     9.1          1.7    5.6       0          3.6        9.1     1.6     0      0        1.4       1.1    10.9   10.0      0        5.1           2.2

                                                                                                   Rt 250
                                                                                       Out           In         Total
                                                                                        441           381         822
                                                                                         23            11          34
                                                                                         10             6          16
                                                                                        474           398         872


                                                                                         5  367                 9   0
                                                                                         1     9                1   0
                                                                                         0     5                1   0
                                                                                         6  381               11    0
                                                                                     Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                     Peak Hour Data
                                         19
                                         10




                                                      10
                                       358


                                       387


                                                         6
                                                         3
                                                         1




                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                      Total




                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                       22


                                                                                                                                       17
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        3



                                                                                                                                                           77


                                                                                                                                                           61
                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                             8




                                                                                              North
                                                                 55
                                                                   7
                                                                   6
                                                                 42



                                                    Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                         Plank Rd
                                                                                                                                           116


                                                                                                                                           112




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                   Plank Rd



                                          8
                                         14
                                        136


                                        158
                                       In




                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                                             192


                                                                                                                                                             180
                                                            93




                                                                                 Unshifted
                                                             4
                                                             1
                                                            88




                                                                                                                                    Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                                               5




                                                                                 Trucks
                                                                                                                                      54


                                                                                                                                      51
                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                 Buses
                                          5
                                          2
                                       222


                                       229
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                       0
                                                       0
                                                       0
                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                          269


                                                                                                                                                          241
                                                                                                                                                            15
                                                                                                                                                            13
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                      Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                       105    418    10    0
                                                                                           2   17     0    0
                                                                                           0     7    1    0
                                                                                       107    442    11    0


                                                                                        506           533        1039
                                                                                         13            19          32
                                                                                           9            8          17
                                                                                        528           560        1088
                                                                                       Out           In         Total
                                                                                                   RT250
                                                                   FRA Engineering
                                                                         530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                        Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                       File Name     : Plank PM
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date    : 6/14/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                                       Page No       :1


                                                                  Groups Printed- Unshifted - Trucks - Buses
                            Route 250                              Plank Road                           Route 250                          Plank Road
                           Southbound                              Westbound                           Northbound                          Eastbound
      Start Time    Left   Thru Right         Peds         Left     Thru Right Peds            Left    Thru Right        Peds     Left     Thru Right        Peds Int. Total
       04:00 PM      13     116        9          0          2        15        1        0       19      98        6         1      4         40      30         0      354
       04:15 PM       5      95        5          0          4        17        7        0       22      78        6         0      3         44      24         0      310
       04:30 PM      11     106        5          0          5        21        3        0       29      92       11         0      8         45      22         0      358
       04:45 PM       8     112        1          0          7        22        4        0       18     105       11         1      5         29      26         1      350
            Total    37     429       20          0         18        75       15        0       88     373       34         2     20       158     102          1     1372

       05:00 PM      11     136         4         0           5       30        5         0        23     115       7        0      7        51       36        0        430
       05:15 PM       8     123         3         0           7       21        2         0        37     135      15        0      4        33       24        0        412
       05:30 PM       6     112         0         0           3       25        5         0        32      99       7        0      1        36       28        0        354
       05:45 PM       3      98         7         0           6       16        6         0        33      96       8        0      2        30       35        0        340
            Total    28     469        14         0          21       92       18         0       125     445      37        0     14       150      123        0       1536

     Grand Total      65    898         34        0         39       167        33        0        213     818      71       2      34      308       225        1      2908
       Apprch %      6.5   90.1        3.4        0       16.3      69.9     13.8         0       19.3    74.1     6.4     0.2       6     54.2      39.6      0.2
         Total %     2.2   30.9        1.2        0        1.3        5.7      1.1        0         7.3   28.1     2.4     0.1     1.2     10.6        7.7       0
       Unshifted      65    891         34        0         37       161        33        0        208     810      70       2      33      302       224        1      2871
     % Unshifted    100    99.2       100         0       94.9      96.4      100         0       97.7       99   98.6    100     97.1     98.1      99.6     100        98.7
          Trucks       0       6         0        0          2          5        0        0           5       7      1       0       1         5         1       0         33
       % Trucks        0     0.7         0        0        5.1          3        0        0         2.3     0.9    1.4       0     2.9       1.6       0.4       0        1.1
          Buses        0       1         0        0          0          1        0        0           0       1      0       0       0         1         0       0          4
        % Buses        0     0.1         0        0          0        0.6        0        0           0     0.1      0       0       0       0.3         0       0        0.1


                                                                                      Route 250
                                                                              Out        In       Total
                                                                               876        990      1866
                                                                                  8         6        14
                                                                                  1         1         2
                                                                               885        997      1882


                                                                               34  891       65    0
                                                                                0     6        0   0
                                                                                0     1        0   0
                                                                               34  898       65    0
                                                                            Right Thru     Left Peds
                                  2
                                 17




                                                 34
                               963


                               982



                                                    1
                                                    0
                                                 33




                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                              Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                       33


                                                                                                                       33


                                                                                                                                   444


                                                                                                                                   437
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      6




                                                                                      North
                                                           308
                                                              5
                                                              1
                                                           302



                                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                  Plank Road
                                 Plank Road




                                                                                                                           167


                                                                                                                           161




                                                                             6/14/2006 04:00 PM
                                          7
                                          1
                                        560


                                        568
                                       In




                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              5




                                                                             6/14/2006 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                       239


                                                                                                                                       231
                                                      225
                                                        1
                                                        0
                                                      224




                                                                                                                    Left Peds




                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                         7




                                                                             Unshifted
                                                                                                                      39


                                                                                                                      37
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        2




                                                                             Trucks
                                1
                              10
                             403


                             414
                            Out




                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                  1
                                                  1
                                                  0
                                                  0




                                                                             Buses
                                                                                                                                              683


                                                                                                                                              668
                                                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                            0




                                                                             Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                              208    810    70    2
                                                                                  5     7    1    0
                                                                                  0     1    0    0
                                                                              213    818    71    2


                                                                              1152      1090       2242
                                                                                  9        13        22
                                                                                  1         1         2
                                                                              1162      1104       2266
                                                                              Out        In       Total
                                                                                      Route 250
                                                                                 FRA Engineering
                                                                                     530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                    Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                                         File Name        : Plank PM
                                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date       : 6/14/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                                                                     Page No          :2


                                Route 250                                    Plank Road                                     Route 250                                  Plank Road
                               Southbound                                    Westbound                                      Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru                         Right   Peds      App. Total    Left Thru     Right   Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right          Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       11 106           5      0      122   5    21                       3       0            29        29    92      11       0       132          8     45         22      0          75         358
  04:45 PM         8 112          1      0      121   7    22                       4       0            33        18   105      11       1       135         5      29         26      1          61         350
  05:00 PM       11 136           4      0      151   5    30                       5       0            40        23   115       7       0       145         7      51         36      0          94         430
  05:15 PM         8 123          3      0      134   7    21                       2       0          30          37   135      15       0        187        4      33      24         0        61         412
 Total Volume    38 477          13      0      528  24    94                      14       0         132        107    447      44       1       599        24     158     108         1       291        1550
     % App. Total     7.2   90.3     2.5      0              18.2         71.2   10.6        0                   17.9   74.6     7.3     0.2                  8.2   54.3    37.1       0.3
             PHF    .864    .877   .650    .000      .874    .857         .783   .700     .000        .825       .723   .828   .733    .250       .801      .750    .775    .750     .250       .774          .901
        Unshifted      38    472      13      0       523      22           88     14        0         124        102    442      43       1       588         23    155     108         1       287         1522
     % Unshifted
        Trucks         0      4       0      0         4        2           5       0       0            7          5     4       1       0         10        1       2          0      0          3            24
      % Trucks         0    0.8       0      0       0.8      8.3         5.3       0       0          5.3        4.7   0.9     2.3       0        1.7      4.2     1.3          0      0        1.0           1.5
         Buses         0      1       0      0         1        0           1       0       0            1          0     1       0       0          1        0       1          0      0          1             4
      % Buses          0    0.2       0      0       0.2        0         1.1       0       0          0.8          0   0.2       0       0        0.2        0     0.6          0      0        0.3           0.3

                                                                                                    Route 250
                                                                                           Out         In           Total
                                                                                            479         523          1002
                                                                                               5          4             9
                                                                                               1          1             2
                                                                                            485         528          1013


                                                                                            13  472               38    0
                                                                                             0     4                0   0
                                                                                             0     1                0   0
                                                                                            13  477               38    0
                                                                                         Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                          2
                                         13




                                                         24
                                       490


                                       505



                                                            1
                                                            0
                                                         23




                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                      Total




                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                            14


                                                                                                                                            14


                                                                                                                                                              240


                                                                                                                                                              236
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                 3




                                                                                                  North
                                                                   158
                                                                      2
                                                                      1
                                                                   155



                                                       Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                             Plank Road
                                        Plank Road




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                 3
                                                 1
                                              287


                                              291




                                                                                                                                                 94


                                                                                                                                                 88
                                              In




                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                  132


                                                                                                                                                                  124




                                                                                     Unshifted
                                                              108
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                              108




                                                                                                                                         Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                    7




                                                                                     Trucks
                                                                                                                                           24


                                                                                                                                           22
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             2




                                                                                     Buses
                                       1
                                     10
                                    203


                                    214
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                          1
                                                          1
                                                          0
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                         372


                                                                                                                                                                         360
                                                                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                          Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                           102    442    43    1
                                                                                               5     4    1    0
                                                                                               0     1    0    0
                                                                                           107    447    44    1


                                                                                            602         588          1190
                                                                                               6         10            16
                                                                                               1          1             2
                                                                                            609         599          1208
                                                                                           Out         In           Total
                                                                                                    Route 250
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                              File Name     : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date    : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                                                              Page No       :1

These are comments that appear BEFORE the data.

                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                            SOUTH AVE                                 SANFORD ST                                SOUTH AVE                                   SANFORD ST
                                 Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
      Start Time    Right   Thru     Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left  Peds App. Total    Right    Thru      Left  Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
       08:00 AM         8     68       0     0         76         0      0      0       0         0        0       75       3      0         78         6      0      0       0           6         160
       08:15 AM        11     79       0     0         90         0      0      0       0         0        0       87      13      0        100         6      0      3       0           9         199
       08:30 AM        16     83       0     0         99         0      0      0       0         0        0     104        7      0        111         9      0      5       0          14         224
       08:45 AM        24     98       0     0        122         0      0      0       0         0        0     122       18      0        140         8      0      9       0          17         279
            Total      59    328       0     0        387         0      0      0       0         0        0     388       41      0        429        29      0     17       0          46         862

       09:00 AM       13      86     0      0          99        0       0       0       0         0       0    103      38       0         141       17       0     19      0           36         276
       09:15 AM        7      76     0      0          83        0       0       0       0         0       0    108      11       0         119        9       0     20      0           29         231
       09:30 AM        5      63     0      0          68        0       0       0       0         0       0     68       6       0          74        3       0      3      0            6         148
       09:45 AM        3      66     0      0          69        0       0       0       0         0       0     77      10       0          87        7       0      4      0           11         167
           Total      28     291     0      0         319        0       0       0       0         0       0    356      65       0         421       36       0     46      0           82         822

*** BREAK ***

       05:00 PM        3      99     0      0         102        0       0       0       0         0       0     96       7       0         103       22       0     18      0          40          245
       05:15 PM        6      78     0      0          84        0       0       0       0         0       0     95       7       0         102       21       0      7      0          28          214
       05:30 PM        1     122     0      0         123        0       0       0       0         0       0     85       7       0          92       13       0      6      0          19          234
       05:45 PM        1     104     0      0         105        0       0       0       0         0       0    110      13       0         123       18       0      1      0          19          247
           Total      11     403     0      0         414        0       0       0       0         0       0    386      34       0         420       74       0     32      0         106          940

       06:00 PM        4     106     0      0         110        0       0       0       0         0       0     97       5       0         102       16       0      2      0          18          230
       06:15 PM        8      84     0      0          92        0       0       0       0         0       0    107      24       0         131       22       0      5      0          27          250
       06:30 PM        9     101     0      0         110        0       3       0       0         3       1     87      16       0         104       18       1      7      0          26          243
       06:45 PM        6      83     0      0          89        0       0       0       1         1       0     97       5       0         102       19       0     13      0          32          224
           Total      27     374     0      0         401        0       3       0       1         4       1    388      50       0         439       75       1     27      0         103          947

     Grand Total     125    1396     0      0        1521        0       3       0       1         4      1    1518      190      0        1709      214       1     122     0         337         3571
       Apprch %      8.2     91.8    0      0                    0      75       0      25              0.1    88.8     11.1      0                 63.5     0.3    36.2     0
        Total %      3.5     39.1    0      0        42.6        0     0.1       0       0       0.1      0    42.5      5.3      0        47.9        6       0     3.4     0         9.4
       Unshifted     115    1346     0      0        1461        0       3       0       1         4      1    1464      174      0        1639      211       1     112     0         324         3428
     % Unshifted      92     96.4    0      0        96.1        0     100       0     100       100    100    96.4     91.6      0        95.9     98.6     100    91.8     0        96.1           96
         Bank 1        3       29    0      0          32        0       0       0       0         0      0      35        3      0          38        0       0       4     0           4           74
       % Bank 1      2.4      2.1    0      0         2.1        0       0       0       0         0      0     2.3      1.6      0         2.2        0       0     3.3     0         1.2          2.1
         Bank 2        7       21    0      0          28        0       0       0       0         0      0      19       13      0          32        3       0       6     0           9           69
       % Bank 2      5.6      1.5    0      0         1.8        0       0       0       0         0      0     1.3      6.8      0         1.9      1.4       0     4.9     0         2.7          1.9

These are comments that appear AFTER THE TOTALS.
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                             File Name     : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date    : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                                                             Page No       :2

                             SOUTH AVE                                SANFORD ST                                SOUTH AVE                                  SANFORD ST
                                   Southbound                              Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
     Start Time Right        Thru      Left Peds App. Total   Right   Thru    Left  Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left  Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 08:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:30 AM
      08:30 AM         16       83       0        0     99       0       0      0      0           0       0    104       7       0        111        9       0      5       0          14         224
      08:45 AM         24       98       0        0   122        0       0      0      0           0       0     122     18       0        140        8       0      9       0          17         279
      09:00 AM         13       86       0        0     99       0       0      0      0           0       0     103     38       0        141       17       0     19       0          36         276
      09:15 AM          7       76       0        0     83       0       0      0      0           0       0     108     11       0        119        9       0     20       0          29         231
  Total Volume         60      343       0        0   403        0       0      0      0           0       0     437     74       0        511       43       0      53      0          96        1010
   % App. Total     14.9      85.1       0        0              0       0      0      0                   0    85.5   14.5       0                44.8       0    55.2      0
           PHF      .625      .875    .000     .000  .826     .000    .000   .000   .000       .000     .000    .895   .487    .000       .906     .632    .000    .663   .000       .667         .905
      Unshifted        52      319       0        0   371        0       0      0      0          0        0     415     61       0        476       40       0      45      0         85          932
   % Unshifted      86.7      93.0       0        0  92.1        0       0      0      0          0        0    95.0   82.4       0       93.2     93.0       0    84.9      0       88.5         92.3
        Bank 1          1       11       0        0     12       0       0      0      0          0        0      13      1       0         14        0       0       3      0          3            29
      % Bank 1        1.7      3.2       0        0    3.0       0       0      0      0          0        0     3.0    1.4       0        2.7        0       0     5.7      0        3.1           2.9
        Bank 2          7       13       0        0     20       0       0      0      0          0        0       9     12       0         21        3       0       5      0          8            49
      % Bank 2      11.7       3.8       0        0    5.0       0       0      0      0          0        0     2.1   16.2       0        4.1      7.0       0     9.4      0        8.3           4.9
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                       File Name    : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                       Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                       Page No      :3
                                                          SOUTH AVE
                                                         Out     In             Total
                                                          460     371             831
                                                           16      12              28
                                                           14      20              34
                                                          490     403             893


                                                          52  319           0      0
                                                           1   11           0      0
                                                           7   13           0      0
                                                          60  343           0      0
                                                       Right Thru    Left       Peds




                                                     Peak Hour Data
                        5
                       27




                                   53
                     198


                     230



                                      3
                                      5
                                   45




                                                                                        Right Thru
                    Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                          SANFORD ST
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            0


                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                0                North
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0

                                 Peds Right Thru
                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 08:30 AM
                             3
                             8
                            85


                            96
                  SANFORD ST
                          In




                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                 In
                                         43


                                                    Unshifted
                                          0
                                          3
                                         40




                                                                                        Left




                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                    Bank 1




                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                    Bank 2
                       2
                     19
                    113


                    134
                   Out




                                                                                                      Total
                                    0
                                    0
                                    0
                                    0




                                                                                        Peds




                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                        Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                          61    415     0    0
                                                             1   13     0    0
                                                          12       9    0    0
                                                          74    437     0    0


                                                          359     476             835
                                                           11      14              25
                                                           16      21              37
                                                          386     511             897
                                                         Out     In             Total
                                                          SOUTH AVE
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                                     File Name     : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date    : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                                                                     Page No       :4
                          SOUTH AVE                                     SANFORD ST                                   SOUTH AVE                                     SANFORD ST
                               Southbound                                    Westbound                                    Northbound                                    Eastbound
     Start Time Right     Thru     Left Peds App. Total       Right     Thru    Left  Peds   App. Total    Right     Thru     Left  Peds   App. Total    Right     Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 08:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Each Approach Begins at:
                    08:15 AM                                 08:00 AM                                     08:30 AM                                      08:30 AM
         +0 mins.      11       79       0      0      90         0        0      0      0           0         0     104       7       0        111          9        0      5       0          14
        +15 mins.      16       83       0      0      99         0        0      0      0           0         0      122     18       0        140          8        0      9       0          17
        +30 mins.       24      98       0      0     122         0        0      0      0           0         0      103     38       0        141         17        0     19       0          36
        +45 mins.       13       86      0      0      99         0        0      0      0           0         0      108     11       0        119          9        0     20       0          29
     Total Volume       64      346      0      0     410         0        0      0      0           0         0      437     74       0        511         43        0      53      0          96
     % App. Total     15.6     84.4      0      0                 0        0      0      0                     0     85.5   14.5       0                  44.8        0    55.2      0
              PHF     .667     .883   .000   .000    .840      .000     .000   .000   .000       .000       .000     .895   .487    .000       .906       .632     .000    .663   .000       .667
        Unshifted       56      324      0      0     380         0        0      0      0          0          0      415     61       0        476         40        0      45      0         85
      % Unshifted     87.5     93.6      0      0    92.7         0        0      0      0          0          0       95   82.4       0       93.2         93        0    84.9      0       88.5
           Bank 1        1       10      0      0      11         0        0      0      0          0          0       13      1       0         14          0        0       3      0          3
        % Bank 1       1.6      2.9      0      0     2.7         0        0      0      0          0          0        3    1.4       0        2.7          0        0     5.7      0        3.1
           Bank 2        7       12      0      0      19         0        0      0      0          0          0        9     12       0         21          3        0       5      0          8
        % Bank 2      10.9      3.5      0      0     4.6         0        0      0      0          0          0      2.1   16.2       0        4.1          7        0     9.4      0        8.3
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                             File Name    : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                             Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                             Start Date   : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                                             Page No      :5
                                                                       SOUTH AVE
                                                                     In - Peak Hour: 08:15 AM
                                                                                 380
                                                                                  11
                                                                                  19
                                                                                 410


                                                                      56  324            0      0
                                                                       1   10            0      0
                                                                       7   12            0      0
                                                                      64  346            0      0
                                                                   Right Thru     Left       Peds




                                                                 Peak Hour Data

                                               53
                                                  3
                                                  5
                                               45




                                                                                                    Right Thru
                  In - Peak Hour: 08:30 AM




                                             Left




                                                                                                                  In - Peak Hour: 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                   SANFORD ST
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                            0                 North
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                             Peds Right Thru
                                                                Unshifted
                                 3
                                 8
                               85


                               96
                  SANFORD ST




                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                Bank 1
                                                     43


                                                                Bank 2
                                                      0
                                                      3
                                                     40




                                                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0




                                                                                                    Peds
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                    Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                      61    415     0    0
                                                                         1   13     0    0
                                                                      12       9    0    0
                                                                      74    437     0    0


                                                                                 476
                                                                                  14
                                                                                  21
                                                                                 511
                                                                     In - Peak Hour: 08:30 AM
                                                                       SOUTH AVE
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                               File Name     : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                               Start Date    : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                                                               Page No       :6
                             SOUTH AVE                                  SANFORD ST                                SOUTH AVE                                  SANFORD ST
                                   Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru                 Left   Peds App. Total   Right   Thru    Left  Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left  Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:45 PM
      05:45 PM          1      104       0        0     105        0       0      0      0           0       0     110     13       0        123       18       0      1       0          19         247
      06:00 PM          4      106       0        0     110        0       0      0      0           0       0      97      5       0        102       16       0      2       0          18         230
      06:15 PM          8       84       0        0       92       0       0      0      0           0       0     107     24       0        131       22       0      5       0          27         250
      06:30 PM          9      101       0        0     110        0       3      0      0           3       1      87     16       0        104       18       1      7       0          26         243
  Total Volume         22      395       0        0     417        0       3      0      0           3       1     401     58       0        460       74        1     15      0          90         970
   % App. Total       5.3     94.7       0        0                0     100      0      0                 0.2    87.2   12.6       0                82.2      1.1   16.7      0
           PHF      .611      .932    .000     .000    .948     .000    .250   .000   .000       .250     .250    .911   .604    .000       .878     .841    .250    .536   .000       .833         .970
      Unshifted        22      389       0        0     411        0       3      0      0          3        1     389     57       0        447       74        1     15      0         90          951
   % Unshifted       100      98.5       0        0    98.6        0     100      0      0        100      100    97.0   98.3       0       97.2      100     100     100      0        100         98.0
        Bank 1          0        5       0        0        5       0       0      0      0          0        0      11      1       0         12        0        0      0      0          0            17
      % Bank 1          0      1.3       0        0      1.2       0       0      0      0          0        0     2.7    1.7       0        2.6        0        0      0      0          0           1.8
        Bank 2          0        1       0        0        1       0       0      0      0          0        0       1      0       0          1        0        0      0      0          0             2
      % Bank 2          0      0.3       0        0      0.2       0       0      0      0          0        0     0.2      0       0        0.2        0        0      0      0          0           0.2
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                       File Name    : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                       Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                       Page No      :7
                                                          SOUTH AVE
                                                         Out     In             Total
                                                          404     411             815
                                                           11       5              16
                                                             1      1               2
                                                          416     417             833


                                                          22  389           0      0
                                                           0     5          0      0
                                                           0     1          0      0
                                                          22  395           0      0
                                                       Right Thru    Left       Peds




                                                     Peak Hour Data
                        1
                        0




                                   15
                     172


                     173



                                      0
                                      0
                                   15




                                                                                        Right Thru
                    Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                          SANFORD ST
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            0


                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      2
                                                1                North
                                                1
                                                0
                                                0

                                 Peds Right Thru
                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 05:45 PM
                             0
                             0
                            90


                            90
                  SANFORD ST
                          In




                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  3




                                                                                                                 In
                                         74


                                                    Unshifted
                                          0
                                          0
                                         74




                                                                                        Left




                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      3
                                                    Bank 1




                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                    Bank 2
                       1
                       0
                     82


                     83
                   Out




                                                                                                      Total
                                    0
                                    0
                                    0
                                    0




                                                                                        Peds




                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                        Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                          57    389     1    0
                                                             1   11     0    0
                                                             0     1    0    0
                                                          58    401     1    0


                                                          463     447             910
                                                             5     12              17
                                                             1      1               2
                                                          469     460             929
                                                         Out     In             Total
                                                          SOUTH AVE
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                                     File Name     : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date    : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                                                                     Page No       :8
                          SOUTH AVE                                     SANFORD ST                                   SOUTH AVE                                     SANFORD ST
                               Southbound                                    Westbound                                    Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru              Left   Peds App. Total    Right     Thru    Left  Peds   App. Total    Right     Thru     Left  Peds   App. Total    Right     Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Each Approach Begins at:
                    05:30 PM                                 06:00 PM                                     05:45 PM                                      05:00 PM
         +0 mins.        1     122       0      0     123         0        0      0      0           0         0      110     13       0        123         22        0     18       0          40
        +15 mins.        1      104      0      0     105         0        0      0      0           0         0       97      5       0        102         21        0       7      0         28
        +30 mins.        4      106      0      0     110         0        3      0      0           3         0      107     24       0        131         13        0       6      0         19
        +45 mins.        8       84      0      0      92         0        0      0      1           1         1       87     16       0        104         18        0       1      0         19
     Total Volume       14      416      0      0     430         0        3      0      1           4         1      401     58       0        460         74        0      32      0        106
     % App. Total      3.3     96.7      0      0                 0       75      0     25                   0.2     87.2   12.6       0                  69.8        0    30.2      0
              PHF     .438     .852   .000   .000    .874      .000     .250   .000   .250       .333       .250     .911   .604    .000       .878       .841     .000    .444   .000       .663
        Unshifted       14      410      0      0     424         0        3      0      1          4          1      389     57       0        447         74        0      32      0        106
      % Unshifted      100     98.6      0      0    98.6         0      100      0    100        100        100       97   98.3       0       97.2        100        0     100      0        100
           Bank 1        0        5      0      0       5         0        0      0      0          0          0       11      1       0         12          0        0       0      0          0
        % Bank 1         0      1.2      0      0     1.2         0        0      0      0          0          0      2.7    1.7       0        2.6          0        0       0      0          0
           Bank 2        0        1      0      0       1         0        0      0      0          0          0        1      0       0          1          0        0       0      0          0
        % Bank 2         0      0.2      0      0     0.2         0        0      0      0          0          0      0.2      0       0        0.2          0        0       0      0          0
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                                       File Name    : Sanford_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 12/6/2006
                                                                                                                                                                       Page No      :9
                                                                                                 SOUTH AVE
                                                                                               In - Peak Hour: 05:30 PM
                                                                                                           424
                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                           430


                                                                                                14  410            0      0
                                                                                                 0     5           0      0
                                                                                                 0     1           0      0
                                                                                                14  416            0      0
                                                                                             Right Thru     Left       Peds




                                                                                           Peak Hour Data

                                                                         32
                                                                            0
                                                                            0
                                                                         32




                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                            In - Peak Hour: 05:00 PM




                                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                            In - Peak Hour: 06:00 PM
                                                                                                                                             SANFORD ST
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                      0                 North
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      0

                                                                       Peds Right Thru
                                                                                          Unshifted
                                                           0
                                                           0
                                                        106


                                                        106
                                            SANFORD ST




                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                          Bank 1
                                                                               74


                                                                                          Bank 2
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                               74




                                                                                                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0




                                                                                                                              Peds
                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                              Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                57    389     1    0
                                                                                                   1   11     0    0
                                                                                                   0     1    0    0
                                                                                                58    401     1    0


                                                                                                           447
                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                           460
                                                                                               In - Peak Hour: 05:45 PM
                                                                                                 SOUTH AVE




These are comments that appear at the END OF THE REPORT!
                                                                    FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                               530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                               Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                   Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                                File Name        : Ridge Rd AM
AA




                                                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 6/14/2006
                                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Trucks - Buses
                                Rt 250                                   Ridge Rd                             Rt 250                                   Ridge Rd
                              Southbound                                Westbound                           Northbound                                Eastbound
     Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM       15      58    15    0         88        24       32     7      0      63       5     74      7    0        86          6       18    19    0         43         280
      07:15 AM       20      59     9    0         88        24       35     4      0      63       9     79     10    0        98          6       14    16    0         36         285
      07:30 AM       20      78    10    0        108        37       37     9      0      83       6     83     24    0       113          8       33    24    0         65         369
      07:45 AM       23      87    17    0        127        16       32     7      0      55       6     78     22    0       106         11       23    24    0         58         346
           Total     78    282     51    0        411       101     136     27      0     264      26 314        63    0       403         31       88    83    0        202        1280

      08:00 AM       24     90       15    0      129         17     33      14     0      64      8     86       26    0      120         17       29      20    0       66         379
      08:15 AM       24     68       20    0      112         21     23       9     0      53      4    100       21    0      125         12       27      17    0       56         346
      08:30 AM       21     53       13    0       87         13     33       7     0      53      7     44       21    0       72          9       23      21    0       53         265
      08:45 AM       26     51       21    0       98         20     48       2     0      70      6     63       22    0       91          6       33      30    0       69         328
           Total     95    262       69    0      426         71    137      32     0     240     25    293       90    0      408         44      112      88    0      244        1318

     Grand Total    173     544     120    0      837        172     273      59    0     504      51    607     153    0      811         75      200     171    0      446        2598
      Apprch %     20.7       65   14.3    0                34.1    54.2    11.7    0             6.3   74.8    18.9    0                16.8     44.8    38.3    0
       Total %       6.7   20.9      4.6   0     32.2         6.6   10.5     2.3    0    19.4       2   23.4      5.9   0     31.2        2.9       7.7     6.6   0     17.2
      Unshifted     164     506     112    0      782        168     254      55    0     477      43    556     149    0      748         70      185     164    0      419        2426
     % Unshifted   94.8       93   93.3    0     93.4       97.7       93   93.2    0    94.6    84.3   91.6    97.4    0     92.2       93.3     92.5    95.9    0     93.9         93.4
        Trucks         9      22       5   0        36          0      11      1    0       12      6      35       4   0        45         2         8       7   0        17         110
      % Trucks       5.2       4     4.2   0       4.3          0       4    1.7    0      2.4   11.8     5.8     2.6   0       5.5       2.7         4     4.1   0       3.8          4.2
         Buses         0      16       3   0        19          4       8      3    0       15      2      16       0   0        18         3         7       0   0        10           62
      % Buses          0     2.9     2.5   0       2.3        2.3     2.9    5.1    0        3    3.9     2.6       0   0       2.2         4       3.5       0   0       2.2          2.4
                                                               FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                               530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                               Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                   Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                                             File Name       : Ridge Rd AM
AA




                                                                                                                                                              Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date      : 6/14/2006
                                                                                                                                                              Page No         :2

                              Rt 250                         Ridge Rd                                                   Rt 250                                     Ridge Rd
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                             App. Total    Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM       20      78      10      0      108  37   37     9    0                            83         6       83    24      0       113          8       33    24      0          65         369
  07:45 AM       23      87      17      0      127  16   32     7    0                          55           6       78    22      0       106         11       23    24      0          58         346
  08:00 AM       24      90      15      0      129  17   33    14    0                          64           8       86    26      0       120         17       29    20      0          66         379
  08:15 AM       24      68      20      0      112  21   23     9    0                          53           4    100      21      0        125        12       27    17      0        56         346
 Total Volume    91 323          62      0      476  91 125     39    0                         255          24    347      93      0       464         48      112    85      0       245        1440
     % App. Total   19.1   67.9     13      0           35.7           49   15.3       0                     5.2   74.8      20      0                19.6     45.7   34.7      0
             PHF    .948   .897   .775   .000   .922    .615         .845   .696    .000        .768       .750    .868    .894   .000      .928      .706     .848   .885   .000      .928          .950
        Unshifted     85    304     58      0    447      90          118     35       0         243          20    317      89      0       426        46      109     82      0       237         1353
     % Unshifted
        Trucks        6     10      2      0     18        0           3      1       0            4          2      24      4      0         30         0        2     3      0          5            57
      % Trucks      6.6    3.1    3.2      0    3.8        0         2.4    2.6       0          1.6        8.3     6.9    4.3      0        6.5         0      1.8   3.5      0        2.0           4.0
         Buses        0      9      2      0     11        1           4      3       0            8          2       6      0      0          8         2        1     0      0          3            30
      % Buses         0    2.8    3.2      0    2.3      1.1         3.2    7.7       0          3.1        8.3     1.7      0      0        1.7       4.2      0.9     0      0        1.2           2.1

                                                                                                 Rt 250
                                                                                     Out           In         Total
                                                                                      489           447         936
                                                                                       27            18          45
                                                                                         7           11          18
                                                                                      523           476         999


                                                                                      85  304               58    0
                                                                                       6   10                 2   0
                                                                                       0     9                2   0
                                                                                      91  323               62    0
                                                                                   Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                        7
                                       18




                                                    85
                                     529


                                     554



                                                       3
                                                       0
                                                    82




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                    Total




                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                      91


                                                                                                                                      90


                                                                                                                                                         198


                                                                                                                                                         187
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                            North
                                                              112
                                                                 2
                                                                 1
                                                              109



                                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                        Ridge Rd
                                  Ridge Rd




                                                                                                                                          125


                                                                                                                                          118




                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                         5
                                         3
                                       237


                                       245
                                      In




                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                             3




                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                            255


                                                                                                                                                            243
                                                          48




                                                                               Unshifted
                                                           0
                                                           2
                                                          46




                                                                                                                                   Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                              4




                                                                               Trucks
                                                                                                                                     39


                                                                                                                                     35
                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                               Buses
                                      13
                                        4
                                     292


                                     309
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                         453


                                                                                                                                                         430
                                                                                                                                                           13
                                                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                    Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                      89    317    20    0
                                                                                         4   24     2    0
                                                                                         0     6    2    0
                                                                                      93    347    24    0


                                                                                      385           426         811
                                                                                       11            30          41
                                                                                       14             8          22
                                                                                      410           464         874
                                                                                     Out           In         Total
                                                                                                 Rt 250
                                                                    FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                               530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                               Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                   Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                                File Name        : Ridge Rd AM
AA




                                                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 6/14/2006
                                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Trucks - Buses
                                Rt 250                                   Ridge Rd                             Rt 250                                   Ridge Rd
                              Southbound                                Westbound                           Northbound                                Eastbound
     Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM       15      58    15    0         88        24       32     7      0      63       5     74      7    0        86          6       18    19    0         43         280
      07:15 AM       20      59     9    0         88        24       35     4      0      63       9     79     10    0        98          6       14    16    0         36         285
      07:30 AM       20      78    10    0        108        37       37     9      0      83       6     83     24    0       113          8       33    24    0         65         369
      07:45 AM       23      87    17    0        127        16       32     7      0      55       6     78     22    0       106         11       23    24    0         58         346
           Total     78    282     51    0        411       101     136     27      0     264      26 314        63    0       403         31       88    83    0        202        1280

      08:00 AM       24     90       15    0      129         17     33      14     0      64      8     86       26    0      120         17       29      20    0       66         379
      08:15 AM       24     68       20    0      112         21     23       9     0      53      4    100       21    0      125         12       27      17    0       56         346
      08:30 AM       21     53       13    0       87         13     33       7     0      53      7     44       21    0       72          9       23      21    0       53         265
      08:45 AM       26     51       21    0       98         20     48       2     0      70      6     63       22    0       91          6       33      30    0       69         328
           Total     95    262       69    0      426         71    137      32     0     240     25    293       90    0      408         44      112      88    0      244        1318

     Grand Total    173     544     120    0      837        172     273      59    0     504      51    607     153    0      811         75      200     171    0      446        2598
      Apprch %     20.7       65   14.3    0                34.1    54.2    11.7    0             6.3   74.8    18.9    0                16.8     44.8    38.3    0
       Total %       6.7   20.9      4.6   0     32.2         6.6   10.5     2.3    0    19.4       2   23.4      5.9   0     31.2        2.9       7.7     6.6   0     17.2
      Unshifted     164     506     112    0      782        168     254      55    0     477      43    556     149    0      748         70      185     164    0      419        2426
     % Unshifted   94.8       93   93.3    0     93.4       97.7       93   93.2    0    94.6    84.3   91.6    97.4    0     92.2       93.3     92.5    95.9    0     93.9         93.4
        Trucks         9      22       5   0        36          0      11      1    0       12      6      35       4   0        45         2         8       7   0        17         110
      % Trucks       5.2       4     4.2   0       4.3          0       4    1.7    0      2.4   11.8     5.8     2.6   0       5.5       2.7         4     4.1   0       3.8          4.2
         Buses         0      16       3   0        19          4       8      3    0       15      2      16       0   0        18         3         7       0   0        10           62
      % Buses          0     2.9     2.5   0       2.3        2.3     2.9    5.1    0        3    3.9     2.6       0   0       2.2         4       3.5       0   0       2.2          2.4
                                                               FRA ENGINEERING, PC
                                                                               530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                Henrietta, NY 14467


                                                                               Route 250 Corridor Study
                                                                                   Rt 96 @ Rt 250                                                             File Name       : Ridge Rd AM
AA




                                                                                                                                                              Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date      : 6/14/2006
                                                                                                                                                              Page No         :2

                              Rt 250                         Ridge Rd                                                   Rt 250                                     Ridge Rd
                           Southbound                       Westbound                                                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                             App. Total    Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM       20      78      10      0      108  37   37     9    0                            83         6       83    24      0       113          8       33    24      0          65         369
  07:45 AM       23      87      17      0      127  16   32     7    0                          55           6       78    22      0       106         11       23    24      0          58         346
  08:00 AM       24      90      15      0      129  17   33    14    0                          64           8       86    26      0       120         17       29    20      0          66         379
  08:15 AM       24      68      20      0      112  21   23     9    0                          53           4    100      21      0        125        12       27    17      0        56         346
 Total Volume    91 323          62      0      476  91 125     39    0                         255          24    347      93      0       464         48      112    85      0       245        1440
     % App. Total   19.1   67.9     13      0           35.7           49   15.3       0                     5.2   74.8      20      0                19.6     45.7   34.7      0
             PHF    .948   .897   .775   .000   .922    .615         .845   .696    .000        .768       .750    .868    .894   .000      .928      .706     .848   .885   .000      .928          .950
        Unshifted     85    304     58      0    447      90          118     35       0         243          20    317      89      0       426        46      109     82      0       237         1353
     % Unshifted
        Trucks        6     10      2      0     18        0           3      1       0            4          2      24      4      0         30         0        2     3      0          5            57
      % Trucks      6.6    3.1    3.2      0    3.8        0         2.4    2.6       0          1.6        8.3     6.9    4.3      0        6.5         0      1.8   3.5      0        2.0           4.0
         Buses        0      9      2      0     11        1           4      3       0            8          2       6      0      0          8         2        1     0      0          3            30
      % Buses         0    2.8    3.2      0    2.3      1.1         3.2    7.7       0          3.1        8.3     1.7      0      0        1.7       4.2      0.9     0      0        1.2           2.1

                                                                                                 Rt 250
                                                                                     Out           In         Total
                                                                                      489           447         936
                                                                                       27            18          45
                                                                                         7           11          18
                                                                                      523           476         999


                                                                                      85  304               58    0
                                                                                       6   10                 2   0
                                                                                       0     9                2   0
                                                                                      91  323               62    0
                                                                                   Right Thru             Left Peds




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                        7
                                       18




                                                    85
                                     529


                                     554



                                                       3
                                                       0
                                                    82




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                    Total




                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                      91


                                                                                                                                      90


                                                                                                                                                         198


                                                                                                                                                         187
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                            North
                                                              112
                                                                 2
                                                                 1
                                                              109



                                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                        Ridge Rd
                                  Ridge Rd




                                                                                                                                          125


                                                                                                                                          118




                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                         5
                                         3
                                       237


                                       245
                                      In




                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                             3




                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                            255


                                                                                                                                                            243
                                                          48




                                                                               Unshifted
                                                           0
                                                           2
                                                          46




                                                                                                                                   Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                              4




                                                                               Trucks
                                                                                                                                     39


                                                                                                                                     35
                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                               Buses
                                      13
                                        4
                                     292


                                     309
                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                         453


                                                                                                                                                         430
                                                                                                                                                           13
                                                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                    Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                      89    317    20    0
                                                                                         4   24     2    0
                                                                                         0     6    2    0
                                                                                      93    347    24    0


                                                                                      385           426         811
                                                                                       11            30          41
                                                                                       14             8          22
                                                                                      410           464         874
                                                                                     Out           In         Total
                                                                                                 Rt 250
                                                                FRA Engineering
                                                                     530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                    Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                  File Name    : Ridge Rd PM
                                                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                              Start Date   : 6/14/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                              Page No      :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks - Buses
                      SOUTH AVE                             MAIN ST                         SOUTH AVE                            MAIN ST
                         Southbound                           Westbound                          Northbound                         Eastbound
      Start Time    Left  Thru Right        Peds         Left Thru Right Peds             Left   Thru Right          Peds     Left Thru Right          Peds Int. Total
       04:00 PM      27     83     26           0          5    40       16        0       32       86     14            0     28     47      27           0      431
       04:15 PM      30     64     41           0          7    54       22        0       34       86      9            0     28     53      40           0      468
       04:30 PM      25     59     30           0         13    52       17        0       33       69      9            0     24     54      36           0      421
       04:45 PM      28     64     47           0         10    50       12        0       37       58     10            0     33     59      23           0      431
            Total   110    270    144           0         35   196       67        0      136     299      42            0    113    213    126            0     1751

       05:00 PM      35      76      25         0          12     49      14          0        33      75       5        0     30      90       35         0      479
       05:15 PM      30      82      25         0           9     62      34          0        43      86       5        0     26      49       38         1      490
       05:30 PM      41      72      29         0          10     65      24          0        42      80       7        0     26      69       20         0      485
       05:45 PM      35      84      27         0           8     51      24          0        31      73       4        0     34      45       20         0      436
            Total   141     314     106         0          39    227      96          0       149     314      21        0    116     253      113         1     1890

     Grand Total     251     584     250        0         74     423     163          0    285         613      63       0     229     466      239        1     3641
       Apprch %     23.1    53.8       23       0       11.2    64.1    24.7          0   29.7        63.8     6.6       0    24.5    49.8     25.6      0.1
         Total %      6.9      16     6.9       0          2    11.6      4.5         0     7.8       16.8     1.7       0      6.3   12.8       6.6       0
            Cars     249     577     249        0         74     412     161          0    278         593      62       0     223     459      235        1     3573
         % Cars     99.2    98.8    99.6        0        100    97.4    98.8          0   97.5        96.7    98.4       0    97.4    98.5     98.3     100       98.1
          Trucks        2       6       1       0          0        8       2         0       6          16      1       0        4       4        4       0        54
       % Trucks       0.8       1     0.4       0          0      1.9     1.2         0     2.1         2.6    1.6       0      1.7     0.9      1.7       0       1.5
          Buses         0       1       0       0          0        3       0         0       1           4      0       0        2       3        0       0        14
        % Buses         0     0.2       0       0          0      0.7       0         0     0.4         0.7      0       0      0.9     0.6        0       0       0.4


                                                                          SOUTH AVE
                                                                         Out      In          Total
                                                                          977    1075          2052
                                                                           22        9           31
                                                                             6       1            7
                                                                         1005    1085          2090


                                                                          249  577     249    0
                                                                            1     6       2   0
                                                                            0     1       0   0
                                                                          250  584     251    0
                                                                        Right Thru    Left Peds
                                   9
                                  27




                                              229
                               1857


                               1893



                                                  4
                                                  2
                                              223




                                                                                                                Right Thru
                               Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                  163


                                                                                                                  161




                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                               780


                                                                                                                               770

                                                                                                                               MAIN ST
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                  7




                                                                                  North
                                                         466
                                                            4
                                                            3
                                                         459



                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                       423


                                                                                                                       412




                                                                         6/14/2006 04:00 PM
                                       5
                                      12
                                     918


                                     935
                                    In




                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                          8




                                                                         6/14/2006 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                        660


                                                                                                                                        647
                                                                                                                                         10
                                                    239
                                                      4
                                                      0
                                                    235
                            MAIN ST




                                                                                                                Left Peds




                                                                                                                                          3




                                                                         Cars
                                                                                                                  74


                                                                                                                  74
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0




                                                                         Trucks
                                4
                              15
                             939


                             958
                            Out




                                                                                                                              Total
                                                1
                                                1
                                                0
                                                0




                                                                         Buses
                                                                                                                              1440


                                                                                                                              1417
                                                                                                                                 17
                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0




                                                                        Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                         278    593    62    0
                                                                             6   16     1    0
                                                                             1     4    0    0
                                                                         285    613    63    0


                                                                          886     933          1819
                                                                           10      23            33
                                                                             1      5             6
                                                                          897     961          1858
                                                                         Out     In           Total
                                                                          SOUTH AVE
                                                                                  FRA Engineering
                                                                                      530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                     Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                                    File Name       : Ridge Rd PM
                                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date      : 6/14/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                                                                 Page No         :2


                            SOUTH AVE                                 MAIN ST                                            SOUTH AVE                                    MAIN ST
                               Southbound                               Westbound                                           Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru                          Right   Peds     App. Total    Left Thru        Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right         Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM       35      76      25      0      136  12    49                       14         0         75        33       75       5       0      113        30      90      35        0        155          479
  05:15 PM       30      82      25      0      137   9    62                       34         0       105         43       86       5       0       134       26      49      38        1       114           490
  05:30 PM       41      72      29      0      142  10    65                       24         0       99         42       80        7       0      129        26      69      20        0       115         485
  05:45 PM       35      84      27      0      146   8    51                       24         0       83         31       73        4       0      108        34      45      20        0        99         436
 Total Volume  141 314 106               0      561  39 227                         96         0      362        149      314       21       0      484       116     253     113        1       483        1890
     % App. Total   25.1        56   18.9      0             10.8         62.7    26.5        0                  30.8     64.9      4.3      0                   24   52.4    23.4      0.2
             PHF    .860     .935    .914   .000    .961     .813         .873    .706     .000       .862       .866     .913    .750    .000      .903      .853    .703    .743    .250       .779          .964
             Cars    139      311     106      0     556       39          222       95       0        356        145      306       20      0       471       114     249     111        1       475         1858
         % Cars     98.6     99.0     100      0    99.1      100         97.8    99.0        0       98.3       97.3     97.5    95.2       0      97.3      98.3    98.4    98.2     100       98.3          98.3
          Trucks        2        3      0      0        5       0             3       1       0           4          3        8       1      0         12         2       2       2       0          6            27
        % Trucks      1.4      1.0      0      0      0.9       0           1.3     1.0       0         1.1        2.0      2.5     4.8      0        2.5       1.7     0.8     1.8       0        1.2           1.4
           Buses        0        0      0      0        0       0             2       0       0           2          1        0       0      0          1         0       2       0       0          2             5
        % Buses         0        0      0      0        0       0           0.9       0       0         0.6        0.7        0       0      0        0.2         0     0.8       0       0        0.4           0.3

                                                                                             SOUTH AVE
                                                                                            Out     In              Total
                                                                                             515     556             1071
                                                                                              11       5               16
                                                                                                0      0                0
                                                                                             526     561             1087


                                                                                            106  311             139    0
                                                                                              0     3               2   0
                                                                                              0     0               0   0
                                                                                            106  314             141    0
                                                                                          Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                           5
                                          12
                                        948


                                        965




                                                        116
                                                            2
                                                            0
                                                        114




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                       Total




                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                               96


                                                                                                                                               95


                                                                                                                                                                415


                                                                                                                                                                408

                                                                                                                                                                MAIN ST
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                   North
                                                                   253
                                                                      2
                                                                      2
                                                                   249



                                                       Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   227


                                                                                                                                                   222




                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                6
                                                2
                                              475


                                              483
                                             In




                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                                                                                                                         362


                                                                                                                                                                         356




                                                                                      Cars
                                                              113
                                                                2
                                                                0
                                                              111
                                     MAIN ST




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                           4




                                                                                      Trucks
                                                                                                                                              39


                                                                                                                                              39
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                      Buses
                                         6
                                         3
                                      473


                                      482
                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                          1
                                                          1
                                                          0
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                777


                                                                                                                                                                764
                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                           Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                            145    306    20    0
                                                                                                3     8    1    0
                                                                                                1     0    0    0
                                                                                            149    314    21    0


                                                                                             461     471              932
                                                                                                5     12               17
                                                                                                0      1                1
                                                                                             466     484              950
                                                                                            Out     In              Total
                                                                                             SOUTH AVE
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                                     File Name       : Orchard_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date      : 12/13/2006
                                                                                                                                                                     Page No         :1

These are comments that appear BEFORE the data.

                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                              RT 250                                   ORCHARD ST                                      RT 250                                      ORCHARD ST
                                 Southbound                                  Westbound                                     Northbound                                    Eastbound
      Start Time    Right   Thru     Left Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru      Left   Peds    App. Total   Right    Thru     Left  Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
       07:00 AM         3    172        1     0        176         0       1       2       0            3      19      16        2        0         37         6       6       1       0          13         229
       07:15 AM         1     94        1     0         96         2       2       5       0            9      30      24        4        0         58         9       2       1       0          12         175
       07:30 AM         0    106        3     0        109         0       3      10       0          13       38      33        6        0         77         6       5       1       0          12         211
       07:45 AM         1    140        7     0        148         0       0      10       0          10       70      34        4        0        108         8      13       0       0          21         287
            Total       5    512      12      0        529         2       6      27       0          35     157      107       16        0        280        29      26       3       0          58         902

       08:00 AM        4    125       3       0        132        2        1       8        0         11      67       40       2        0         109        7       5       1       0           13         265
       08:15 AM        0     91       1       0         92        0        1       7        0          8      66       34       6        0         106       11       5       0       0           16         222
       08:30 AM        0    106       5       0        111        1        4      15        0         20      47       31       4        0          82        6       1       1       0            8         221
       08:45 AM        2     65       1       0         68        1        2      13        0         16      37       40       2        0          79       13       0       1       0           14         177
            Total      6    387      10       0        403        4        8      43        0         55     217      145      14        0         376       37      11       3       0           51         885

     Grand Total       11    899      22      0        932        6       14      70        0         90     374      252       30       0         656       66      37        6      0         109         1787
       Apprch %       1.2   96.5     2.4      0                 6.7     15.6    77.8        0                  57    38.4      4.6       0                 60.6    33.9      5.5      0
         Total %      0.6   50.3     1.2      0        52.2     0.3      0.8     3.9        0          5    20.9     14.1      1.7       0         36.7     3.7     2.1      0.3      0           6.1
       Unshifted       11    882      21      0         914       2       10      65        0         77     373      227       28       0          628      63      36        4      0          103        1722
     % Unshifted     100    98.1    95.5      0        98.1    33.3     71.4    92.9        0       85.6    99.7     90.1     93.3       0         95.7    95.5    97.3     66.7      0         94.5         96.4
         Bank 1         0       8      1      0           9       3        4       5        0         12        1      15        1       0            17      2       0        2      0             4          42
       % Bank 1         0     0.9    4.5      0           1      50     28.6     7.1        0       13.3      0.3       6      3.3       0           2.6      3       0     33.3      0           3.7         2.4
         Bank 2         0       9      0      0           9       1        0       0        0          1        0      10        1       0            11      1       1        0      0             2          23
       % Bank 2         0       1      0      0           1    16.7        0       0        0        1.1        0       4      3.3       0           1.7    1.5     2.7        0      0           1.8         1.3

These are comments that appear AFTER THE TOTALS.
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                                                    File Name       : Orchard_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date      : 12/13/2006
                                                                                                                                                                    Page No         :2

                                  RT 250                                  ORCHARD ST                                   RT 250                                     ORCHARD ST
                                      Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
     Start Time      Right      Thru       Left Peds App. Total   Right    Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left  Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
       07:45 AM           1      140          7       0    148        0      0      10       0          10      70      34       4       0        108         8     13       0       0          21          287
       08:00 AM           4      125          3       0    132        2      1       8       0          11       67     40       2       0         109        7      5       1       0          13         265
       08:15 AM           0        91         1       0      92       0      1       7       0           8       66      34      6       0        106       11       5        0      0          16         222
       08:30 AM           0      106          5       0    111        1      4      15       0          20       47      31       4      0         82         6      1        1      0           8         221
   Total Volume           5      462         16       0    483        3      6       40      0          49     250     139       16      0        405        32     24        2      0          58         995
   % App. Total           1     95.7        3.3       0             6.1   12.2    81.6       0                61.7    34.3        4      0                55.2    41.4      3.4      0
            PHF       .313      .825      .571     .000   .816    .375    .375    .667    .000        .613    .893    .869    .667    .000        .929    .727    .462    .500    .000        .690         .867
       Unshifted          5      453         16       0    474        1      5       37      0           43    249     126       15      0         390       30     24        2      0           56         963
    % Unshifted        100      98.1       100        0   98.1    33.3    83.3    92.5       0        87.8    99.6    90.6    93.8       0        96.3    93.8     100     100       0        96.6         96.8
          Bank 1          0         5         0       0       5       1      1        3      0            5       1       8       0      0            9       1      0        0      0            1           20
       % Bank 1           0       1.1         0       0     1.0   33.3    16.7      7.5      0        10.2      0.4     5.8       0      0          2.2     3.1      0        0      0          1.7          2.0
          Bank 2          0         4         0       0       4       1      0        0      0            1       0       5       1      0            6       1      0        0      0            1           12
       % Bank 2           0       0.9         0       0     0.8   33.3       0        0      0          2.0       0     3.6     6.3      0          1.5     3.1      0        0      0          1.7          1.2
New Title Added
AA




                                                                                                                                          File Name    : Orchard_AllLegs
                                                                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 12/13/2006
                                                                                                                                          Page No      :3
                                                                                      RT 250
                                                                                    Out      In       Total
                                                                                     129      474       603
                                                                                        9       5        14
                                                                                        6       4        10
                                                                                     144      483       627


                                                                                      5  453      16    0
                                                                                      0     5       0   0
                                                                                      0     4       0   0
                                                                                      5  462      16    0
                                                                                  Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                                  2
                                                  2




                                                           2
                                                 81


                                                 85


                                                           2
                                                           0
                                                           0




                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                              Total




                                                                        Left




                                                                                                                            ORCHARD ST
                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                             290


                                                                                                                             289
                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                  1



                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                1
                                                                        24                  North
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                        24



                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                       1
                                                       1
                                                      56


                                                      58
                                            ORCHARD ST
                                                    In




                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                        5




                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                   32




                                                                                                                                     49


                                                                                                                                     43
                                                                               Unshifted
                                                                    1
                                                                    1
                                                                   30




                                                                                                              Left Peds




                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                               Bank 1




                                                                                                                40


                                                                                                                37
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  3
                                                                               Bank 2
                                                 1
                                                 1
                                               25


                                               27
                                             Out




                                                                                                                            Total
                                                              0
                                                              0
                                                              0
                                                              0




                                                                                                                             339


                                                                                                                             332
                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                   Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                     15    126   249    0
                                                                                        0     8    1    0
                                                                                        1     5    0    0
                                                                                     16    139   250    0


                                                                                     520      390       910
                                                                                        9       9        18
                                                                                        5       6        11
                                                                                     534      405       939
                                                                                    Out      In       Total
                                                                                      RT 250




These are comments that appear at the END OF THE REPORT!
                                                         FRA Engineering
                                                              530 Summit Point Drive
                                                             Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                            File Name    : Orchard PM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date   : 6/16/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                 Page No      :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks - Buses
                               250                       ORCHARD                         250                             ORCHARD
                           Southbound                    Westbound                         Northbound                    Eastbound
      Start Time    Left   Thru Right     Peds    Left   Thru Right Peds            Left   Thru Right     Peds    Left   Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
       04:00 PM       0      72       3       0    37       7       2        0       11      110     12       0     6       2       9       0      271
       04:15 PM       2      73       0       0    27       6       5        0       10      121     13       0     1       3       9       0      270
       04:30 PM       2      69       2       0    52       5       6        0       10      129     13       0     1       3      11       0      303
       04:45 PM       2      75       1       0    44       7       4        0       12      134     11       0     0       1       9       0      300
            Total     6     289       6       0   160      25      17        0       43      494     49       0     8       9      38       0     1144

       05:00 PM        0      81      0      0      51      9       3        0      13     135      11       0       0       2      8         0     313
       05:15 PM        0      93      0      0      26      7       3        0      12     157      11       0       5       4     10         0     328
       05:30 PM        0      77      2      0      39      4       4        0       9     159       6       0       1       4      5         0     310
     Grand Total       6    540       8      0     276     45      27        0      77     945      77       0      14      19     61         0    2095
       Apprch %      1.1   97.5     1.4      0    79.3   12.9     7.8        0       7      86       7       0    14.9   20.2    64.9         0
         Total %     0.3   25.8     0.4      0    13.2    2.1     1.3        0     3.7    45.1     3.7       0     0.7     0.9    2.9         0
            Cars       5    529       8      0     276     44      26        0      77     936      76       0      13      19     59         0    2068
         % Cars     83.3      98   100       0     100   97.8    96.3        0    100       99    98.7       0    92.9    100    96.7         0     98.7
          Trucks       1      10      0      0       0      1       1        0       0       9       1       0       0       0      2         0       25
       % Trucks     16.7     1.9      0      0       0    2.2     3.7        0       0       1     1.3       0       0       0    3.3         0      1.2
          Buses        0       1      0      0       0      0       0        0       0       0       0       0       1       0      0         0        2
        % Buses        0     0.2      0      0       0      0       0        0       0       0       0       0     7.1       0      0         0      0.1
                                                                                  FRA Engineering
                                                                                     530 Summit Point Drive
                                                                                    Henrietta, New Yor 14467                                                                             File Name     : Orchard PM
                                                                                                                                                                                         Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 6/16/2006
AA




                                                                                                                                                                                         Page No       :2


                                   250                                        ORCHARD                                          250                                           ORCHARD
                               Southbound                                     Westbound                                          Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right                           Peds      App. Total     Left Thru            Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right        Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:30 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM         2     75       1      0       78  44     7  4                              0          55            12      134       11       0      157         0      1        9       0          10         300
  05:00 PM         0     81       0      0       81  51     9  3                              0          63            13      135       11       0      159         0      2        8       0          10         313
  05:15 PM         0     93       0      0       93  26     7  3                              0        36              12      157       11       0       180        5      4       10       0          19         328
  05:30 PM         0     77       2      0       79  39     4  4                              0        47               9      159        6       0      174         1      4        5       0          10       310
 Total Volume      2 326          3      0      331 160    27 14                              0       201              46      585       39       0      670         6     11       32       0          49      1251
     % App. Total     0.6   98.5      0.9      0            79.6          13.4       7       0                      6.9        87.3      5.8      0                12.2   22.4   65.3         0
             PHF    .250    .876    .375    .000   .890     .784          .750    .875    .000        .798        .885         .920    .886    .000      .931      .300   .688   .800      .000       .645         .954
             Cars       2    319        3      0    324      160             26     14       0         200           46         581       39      0       666         6     11      31        0          48       1238
         % Cars      100    97.9     100       0   97.9      100          96.3     100       0        99.5         100         99.3     100       0      99.4       100    100   96.9         0       98.0         99.0
          Trucks        0       7       0      0       7       0              1      0       0            1           0            4       0      0          4        0      0       1        0           1           13
        % Trucks        0     2.1       0      0     2.1       0            3.7      0       0          0.5           0          0.7       0      0        0.6        0      0     3.1        0         2.0          1.0
           Buses        0       0       0      0       0       0              0      0       0            0           0            0       0      0          0        0      0       0        0           0            0
        % Buses         0       0       0      0       0       0              0      0       0            0           0            0       0      0          0        0      0       0        0           0            0

                                                                                                         250
                                                                                           Out            In               Total
                                                                                            601            324               925
                                                                                               4             7                11
                                                                                               0             0                 0
                                                                                            605            331               936


                                                                                             3  319                    2      0
                                                                                             0     7                   0      0
                                                                                             0     0                   0      0
                                                                                             3  326                    2      0
                                                                                         Right Thru             Left       Peds




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                           2
                                           0




                                                      6
                                        123


                                        125


                                                      6
                                                      0
                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                       Total




                                                                   Left




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                    14


                                                                                                                                                    14
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                                      52


                                                                                                                                                                      52
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                  North
                                                                   11
                                                                     0
                                                                     0
                                                                   11



                                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                    ORCHARD
                                    ORCHARD




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                           1
                                           0
                                          48


                                          49




                                                                                                                                                         27


                                                                                                                                                         26
                                        In




                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                                        201


                                                                                                                                                                        200




                                                                                     Cars
                                                              32
                                                               1
                                                               0
                                                              31




                                                                                                                                                 Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                  160


                                                                                                                                                  160




                                                                                     Trucks
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                     Buses
                                           1
                                           0
                                         75


                                         76
                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                             253


                                                                                                                                                                             252
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                          Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                            46    581    39    0
                                                                                               0     4    0    0
                                                                                               0     0    0    0
                                                                                            46    585    39    0


                                                                                            510            666              1176
                                                                                               8             4                12
                                                                                               0             0                 0
                                                                                            518            670              1188
                                                                                           Out            In               Total
                                                                                               250
