Final Environmental Impact Report




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use
Development
SCH# 2007062074




City of Milpitas

August 2008
                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS


PREFACE       .......................................................................................................................................2

SECTION 1     LIST OF AGENCIES AND INDIVIDUALS RECEIVING THE DRAFT EIR...........4

SECTION 2     LIST OF AGENCIES AND INDIVIDUALS COMMENTING ON THE DEIR .........6

SECTION 3     RESPONSES TO COMMENTS RECEIVED ON THE DEIR.....................................7

SECTION 4     REVISIONS TO THE TEXT OF THE DEIR .............................................................45

SECTION 5     REVISED FINAL TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS (TIA)...............56




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                                 1                                                               Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                                                                   August 2008
PREFACE

This document, together with the April 2008 Draft Environmental Impact Report (Draft EIR) for the
Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development, constitutes the Final Environmental Impact Report
(Final EIR) for the proposed project. Under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the
Final EIR is an informational document prepared by the Lead Agency that must be considered by the
decision-makers before approving the proposed project. CEQA Guidelines Section 15132 specifies
that a Final EIR shall consist of the following:

         The Draft EIR or a revision of the draft;

         Comments and recommendations received on the Draft EIR either verbatim or in summary;

         A list of persons, organizations, and public agencies commenting on the Draft EIR;

         The responses of the Lead Agency to the significant environmental points raised in the
          review and consultation process; and

         Any other information added by the Lead Agency.

This Final EIR will be used by the City and other Responsible Agencies in making decisions
regarding the project. The CEQA Guidelines require that, while the information in the Final EIR
does not control the agency's ultimate discretion on the project, the agency must respond to each
significant effect identified in the Final EIR by making written findings for each of those significant
effects before it approves a project.

According to Section 21081 of the California Public Resources Code, no public agency shall approve
or carry out a project for which an EIR has been certified which identifies one or more significant
environmental effects on the environment that would occur if the project is approved or carried out
unless both of the following occur:

    (A)      The public agency makes one or more of the following findings with respect to each
             significant effect:

              (1) Changes or alterations have been required in, or incorporated into, the project which
                  mitigate or avoid the significant effects on the environment.

              (2) Those changes or alterations are within the responsibility and jurisdiction of another
                  public agency and have been, or can and should be, adopted by that other agency.

              (3) Specific economic, legal, social, technological, or other considerations, including
                  considerations for the provision of employment opportunities for highly trained
                  workers, make infeasible the mitigation measures or alternatives identified in the
                  EIR.

    (B)      With respect to significant effects which were subject to a finding under paragraph (3) of
             subdivision (A), the public agency finds that specific overriding economic, legal, social,
             technological, or other benefits of the project outweigh the significant effects on the
             environment.

Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                  2                                         Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                              August 2008
                                                                                            Preface


The Final EIR will be made available to the public and commenting public agencies 10 days prior to
the EIR certification hearing.

All documents referenced in this EIR are available for public review at the Milpitas City Hall
455 East Calaveras Boulevard, Milpitas, California, on weekdays during normal business hours.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             3                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                        August 2008
SECTION 1             LIST OF AGENCIES AND INDIVIDUALS RECEIVING
                      THE DRAFT EIR OR NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY OF
                      THE DRAFT EIR

State of California

      Regional Water Quality Control Board, Region 2
      Department of Parks and Recreation
      Native American Heritage Commission
      Public Utilities Commission
      Office of Historic Preservation
      Department of Fish and Game, Region 3
      Department of Water Resources
      Department of Conservation
      California Highway Patrol
      Caltrans, District 4
      San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission
      State Water Resources Control Board, Clean Water Program
      Caltrans, Division of Aeronautics

Federal Agencies

      U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
      U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service

County and Regional Agencies

      Association of Bay Area Governments
      Bay Area Air Quality Management District
      Santa Clara County Planning Department
      Santa Clara County Open Space Authority
      Santa Clara County Roads and Airports Department
      Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority
      Santa Clara Valley Water District
      Metropolitan Transportation Commission
      San Francisco Water Department
      San Francisco PUC
      San Jose/Santa Clara Water Pollution Control Plant

Local Governments

      City of Fremont
      City of Santa Clara
      City of San Jose
      County of Santa Clara



Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development            4                    Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                   August 2008
                                          Section 1 Draft EIR and Notice of Availability Distribution

School Districts

      Berryessa Unified School District
      East Side Union High School District
      Milpitas Unified School District

Organizations, Companies, and Individuals

      Pacific Gas and Electric
      Union Pacific Railroad
      SBC Telephone
      Adams, Broadwell, Joseph & Cardozo
      Milpitas Chamber of Commerce

The Draft EIR was also on file at City Hall and available for review at the Milpitas Community
Library and on the City of Milpitas web site at www.ci.milpitas.ca.gov




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             5                                         Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                         August 2008
SECTION 2          LIST OF AGENCIES AND INDIVIDUALS COMMENTING
                   ON THE DRAFT EIR

Comment Received From                                Date of Letter   Response on Page

State Agencies

A.     Department of Transportation                  June 10, 2008          7

County and Regional Agencies

B.     County of Santa Clara Roads and Airports      May 29, 2008           15
       Department
C.     Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority   June 16, 2008          17

Local Governments

D.     City of Milpitas Bicycle Pedestrian           June 16, 2008          21
       Advisory Commission

School Districts

E.     Milpitas Unified School District              May 28, 2008           23

Persons

F.     Davis, Roger                                  May 19, 2008           25
G.     Le, Patrick Phu #1                            May 18, 2008           27
H.     Le, Patrick Phu #2                            May 20, 2008           29
I.     Mac, David                                    May 19, 2008           31
J.     Manassau, Dan                                 May 09, 2008           33
K.     Nguyen, Helen                                 May 20, 2008           36
L.     Nickham, Alex                                 May 19, 2008           38
M.     Pham, An Thi                                  May 19, 2008           40
N.     Warney, Tom                                   May 09, 2008           42




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development            6                             Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                            August 2008
SECTION 3          RESPONSES TO COMMENTS RECEIVED ON THE
                   DRAFT EIR

The following section includes all of the comments requiring responses contained in letters received
by the City of Milpitas during the noticed 45-day review period for this Draft EIR. The comments
are organized under headings containing the source of the letter and its date. The specific comments
have been excerpted from the letters and are presented as "comment" with each response directly
following. The original comment letter is included after the responses to its comments.

A.     RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM THE DEPARTMENT
       OF TRANSPORTATION DATED JUNE 10, 2008

COMMENT A-1:            No Internal Trip Reduction

People who will work in the offices will not necessarily live in the condominiums. The AM peak
hour trips occur between 8 to 9 AM, one hour earlier than the opening of retail. Therefore, we
recommend the elimination of internal trip reductions for housing-employment, AM housing-retail,
and AM employment-retail.

RESPONSE A-1:          Internal trip reductions for mixed-use developments are an accepted industry
                       practice. The Institute of Transportation Engineers is currently developing a
                       best practice to provide guidance in their application. The Santa Clara Valley
                       Transportation Authority (VTA) has adopted the use of internalization
                       reductions in their Transportation Impact Analysis guidelines. Because the
                       project is a mixed-use development and is located in Santa Clara County, the
                       VTA reductions were applied.

                       It is the professional opinion of the traffic engineer that a small percentage of
                       employees will choose to live in close proximity to their jobs. Thus, the use
                       of the relatively low housing-office reduction (3 percent) is appropriate.
                       Many retailers open before 9:00 am, such as dry cleaners and coffee shops.
                       Therefore the AM peak-hour reduction is appropriate.

COMMENT A-2:            Double Counts on Internal Trip Reductions

Trip generation calculations should avoid double counts in terms of internal trip reductions. Table 8
shows double count reductions for housing-retail mixed use (13% under retail and 13% under
condominium land uses.) Again, Table 8 shows double count reductions for housing-employment
reduction (3% under office and 3% under condominium land uses) and employment-retail reduction
(3% under retail and 3% under office land uses.) Please explain how and why double internal
reductions are used within the same peak hour or eliminate the double reductions and revise the trip
generations in Table 8.

RESPONSE A-2:          Because the residential and retail trips occur on-site, the mixed-use reductions
                       are applied to both land uses to account for linked trip ends. The residential
                       trip generation rate assumes project residents would travel off-site to go to
                       work. Similarly, the retail trip generation rate project employees would arrive
                       to work from an off-site location. It is estimated that three percent of the
                       project residents would work on-site. Therefore, the AM peak hour outbound


Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               7                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                            August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

                       residential trips are reduced three percent and the inbound office trips are
                       reduced three percent. This methodology was applied to the other mixed-use
                       reductions.

COMMENT A-3:             The following on-ramps either have existing ramp meters or will have
meters installed and become operational in the near future. (Peak Period, Status, No. of Lanes at
Meter)

a) NB I 880/ Calaveras Loop on-ramp ------------------------ (PM, active, 1 mixed)
b) NB I 880/ Tasman Drive Loop on-ramp ------------------ (PM, active, 2 mixed)
c) SB I 880/ Route 237-Calaveras Collector on-ramp------ (PM, future, 2 mixed)
d) SB I 880/ Tasman Drive Diagonal on-ramp -------------- (PM, future, 1 mixed)

Currently the NB I 880 ramp meters are active during the PM peak period (3 to 7PM, Monday
Friday), and the SB I 880 meters are to be implemented in PM peak period (3 to 7PM) by the end of
2008.

The mitigation measures for impacted on-ramps and intersections to I 880 and SR 237 will also need
to be evaluated with metering operations considered. These mitigation measures may include
widening of the on-ramps for storage or High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) bypass lanes. Local street
storage approaching the on-ramps may need to be added also.

RESPONSE A-3           Consistent with the City of Milpitas and VTA traffic impact analysis
                       guidelines, the transportation impact analysis (TIA) prepared for the proposed
                       project analyzed freeway ramps using the ramp intersection operations (refer
                       to Appendix A of the Draft EIR). The City of Milpitas is beginning the
                       preparation of a Citywide Deficiency Plan (CDP) in the Fall 2008. During
                       development of the CDP, the City will solicit input from Caltrans regarding
                       planned ramp metering improvement projects.

COMMENT A-4             Provide queuing analysis at the intersections of southbound (SB) I 880/
Tasman Dr. (Study intersection (IS) Joint #13) and at northbound (NB) I 880/ Great Mall Pkwy (I/S
Joint #14) for our review and comment.

RESPONSE A-4           The intersection queues (refer to the bottom line of the individual LOS
                       calculation sheets in Appendix B of the transportation impact analysis, which
                       reports the queues by lane group) immediately upstream or downstream of
                       freeway on- and off-ramps indicate that vehicles heading eastbound through
                       the intersection of I-880 NB Ramps/Great Mall Parkway would queue back to
                       the I-880 SB Ramps/Tasman Drive intersection during the PM peak hour.
                       This queue spillback is also projected under Background Conditions without
                       the project. Vehicles making a westbound left at the intersection of I-880 SB
                       Ramps/Tasman would queue back to the I-880 NB Ramps/Great Mall
                       Parkway intersection during the PM peak hour. This queue is also projected
                       under Background Conditions. Draft EIR mitigation measures MM TR-4.1
                       and MM TR-5.1 (refer to page 49 of the Draft EIR) are the design and
                       implementation of signal coordination at the I-880/Tasman and Great Mall
                       Parkway ramps, which will improve operations and reduce queue spillback.


Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               8                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

                       The off-ramp queues at these two intersections were also reviewed to
                       determine if the projected off-ramp queues would extend back to the freeway
                       mainline. The results indicate that sufficient storage is provided on the off-
                       ramp to accommodate the projected queues.

COMMENT A-5             Mitigation/ fair share fees are recommended on the following segments (a-b)
and intersections (c-g) of freeways:

a) SR 237, eastbound (EB) between McCarthy Blvd. and I 880
b) SR 237, westbound (WB) between I 880 and Zanker Rd.
c) SR 237/ I 880 NB ramps
d) SR 237 (E. Calaveras Blvd.)/S Milpitas Blvd.
e) SR 237/ Abel St.
f) I 880 SB ramps/ Tasman Dr.
g) I 880NB ramps/ Great Mall Pkwy.

RESPONSE A-5           Widening the freeway is necessary to reduce the project freeway segment
                       impacts on SR 237 (SR 237 EB between McCarthy Boulevard and I-880 and
                       SR 237 WB between I-880 and Zanker Road), which is beyond the scope of
                       an individual development. Therefore, the mitigation is not considered
                       feasible. There is no program or mechanism in place for the project to make
                       a fair-share contribution to this mitigation, because the improvements are not
                       identified in an adopted Capitol Improvements Program (CIP) or other
                       funding mechanism that allows for a fair-share contribution.

                       To avoid this issue in the future, the City of Milpitas is currently preparing a
                       Citywide Deficiency Plan (CDP) that will identify local and regional
                       transportation improvements (refer to Section 4.2.4.10 Freeway Segment
                       Impacts), which will provide the mechanism needed to allow fair-share
                       contribution towards these improvements as mitigation. The CDP will
                       include the "Immediate Actions" list in Appendix D of the Transportation
                       Impact Analysis Guidelines.

                       Pending final approval of the CDP, the City of Milpitas will require the
                       project applicant to implement, the "Immediate Actions" list in Appendix D
                       of the Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines (May 1998), as part of the
                       project's approval. These actions include measures to encourage alternative
                       modes of transportation and site design guidelines for new development.

                              Improve Pedestrian Facilities (A-4)
                              Shuttle (B-3)
                              Bus Stop Improvements (B-8)
                              Traffic signal timing and synchronization program (F-3)
                              HOV parking preference program (G-1)
                              Bike facilities (G-2)
                              Pedestrian circulation system (G-4)




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               9                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                            August 2008
                                       Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

                      Mitigation and/or fair share fees are proposed by the project for impacts to
                      freeway segments and intersections.

                      Mitigation measure MM TR-2.1 identified on page 48 of the Draft EIR (i.e.,
                      converting the northbound center left turn lane to a shared left and right turn
                      lane) and proposed by the project reduces the project impact at the
                      intersection of SR 237 and the I-880 NB ramp to a less than significant level.
                      Mitigation measure MM TR-8.1 identified on page 50 of the Draft EIR (i.e.,
                      adding a third westbound thru lane) and proposed by the project reduces the
                      project impact at the Calaveras Boulevard/Milpitas Boulevard intersection to
                      a less than significant level.

                      Mitigation measure MM TR-10.1 on page 51 of the Draft EIR states that the
                      project would pay the Calaveras Boulevard, Montague Expressway and
                      Milpitas Business Park traffic impact fees. The Calaveras Boulevard traffic
                      impact fee will fund the widening of the Calaveras bridge over the railroad
                      tracks from four to six lanes and increasing the number of lanes between I-
                      680 and I-880. This will improve roadway operations for intersections on
                      Calaveras Boulevard (Items c, d, & e above). Traffic mitigation measures
                      MM TR-4.1 and MM TR-5.1 (i.e., provide all funding necessary for the
                      design and implementation of signal coordination at the I-880/Tasman and
                      Great Mall Parkway ramps) identified on page 49 of the Draft EIR and
                      proposed by the project will improve operation of these intersections (Items f
                      & g above).

                      The transportation impact analysis completed for the proposed project
                      determined that project-generated traffic would not result in a significant
                      impact at the SR 237/Abel Street intersection (refer to Table 8 on page 40 of
                      the Draft EIR). Therefore, mitigation is not required or proposed at this
                      intersection. Payment of the Calaveras Boulevard traffic impact fee,
                      however, will improve operations at this intersection (see above).

                      For the reasons described above, the project would mitigate its impacts traffic
                      impacts to the greatest extend feasible.

COMMENT A-6           Mitigation/fair share fees are recommended, at a minimum, at the following
freeway segments:

a) I 880 NB between SR 237 and Mission Blvd. (SR 262)
b) I 880 SB between Great Mall Pkwy and Brokaw Rd.
c) I 680 NB between Calaveras Blvd! SR 237 and Mission Blvd. (SR 262)
d) 1680 SB between Yosemite Dr. and Capitol Ave.

RESPONSE A-6          According to the traffic impact analysis (TIA) prepared for the proposed
                      project (refer to Appendix A of the Draft EIR), the project does not have a
                      significant impact on any of these freeway segments. For this reason,
                      mitigation, in the form of fees or physical improvements, is not required or
                      proposed by the project.


Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             10                                         Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

COMMENT A-7             The DEIR states on page viii that the developer will add a northbound left
turn lane, which will result in an acceptable PM peak hour operation at the intersection of Bellew
Drive/Barber Lane. As this will require the removal of the existing bike lanes on Barber Lane, we
suggest that this proposal be reconsidered in order to provide equal access to the road for all modes
of transportation. The Department suggests that a fully interconnected pedestrian and bicycle
network be integrated in the surrounding area of the project to promote alternative modes of
transportation and to lessen impacts to 1-880.

RESPONSE A-7           Please refer to Response D-1 in this Final EIR.

COMMENT A-8             The I-880/Milpitas Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA)
station and local bus 33 are less than a mile away from the project, consequently parking
requirements should be reduced with the expectation that people will live, shop, and potentially work
within the area. In addition, providing less parking could make housing units more affordable and
attractive to households with lower rates of auto ownership. This may enhance the use of mass transit
and reduce vehicle trips, therefore lessening traffic on the State and local facilities.

RESPONSE A-8           The parking supply proposed by the project is reduced to account for the
                       mixed-use development and is less than the City of Milpitas's Code
                       requirement for mixed-use projects. A shared-parking analysis was
                       completed for the proposed project. The analysis shows that the proposed
                       parking supply is adequate since the different land uses reach their peak
                       parking demands at different times of the day. The project site is not within
                       2,000 feet of a transit station; therefore, the project does not meet VTA's
                       definition of transit oriented development and does not qualify for further
                       parking rate reductions.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               11                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                           August 2008
STATE OF CALIFORNIA-BUSINESS, TRANSPORTATION AND HOU$IN....G A9."'ENl\C.uY                     ~AillR"N""'OLD   SClfWARZENEGGER. Governor

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
111 GRAND AVENUE
P. O. BOX 23660
OAKLAND, CA 94623-0660                                                                                                  Flex your power!
PHONE (510) 622-5491                                                                                                  Be energy efficient!
FAX (510) 286-5559
TTY 711




          June 10,2008

                                                                                                   SCL-880-7.87
                                                                                                   SCL880228
                                                                                                   SCH2007062074

          Ms. Judie Gillie
          City of Milpitas
          455 E. Calaveras Boulevard
          Milpitas, CA 95035

          Dear Ms. Gillie:

          Landmark Tower Mixed Use Development - Draft Environmental ImpacfReport (DEIR)

          Thank you for including the California Department of Transportation (Department) in the
          environmental review process for the proposed project. The following comments are based on our
          review of the proposed project DEIR.

          Traffic Forecasting
          No Internal Trip Reduction
          People whowill work in the offices will not necessarily live in the condominiums. The AM peak
          hour trips occur between 8 to 9 AM, one hour earlier than the opening of retail. Therefore, we
          recommend the elimination of internal trip reductions for housing-employment, AM housing-retail,
          and AM employment-retail.

          Double Counts on Internal Trip Reductions
          Trip generation calculations should avoid double counts in terms of internal trip reductions. Table
          8 shows double count reductions for housing-retail mixed use (13% under retail and 13% under
          condominium land uses.) Again, Table 8 shows double count reductions for housing-employment
          reduction (3% under office and 3% under condominium land uses) and employment-retail
          reduction (3% under retail and 3% under office land uses.) Please explain how and why double
          internal reductions are used within the same peak hour or eliminate the double reductions and
          revise the trip generations in Table 8.

          Traffic Systems
          I) The following on-ramps either have existing ramp meters or will have meters installed and
             become operational in the near future.       (Peak Period, Status, No. of Lanes at Meter)
             a) NB I 880/ Calaveras Loop on-ramp ------------------------ (PM, active, I mixed)
             b) NB I 880/ Tasman Drive Loop on-ramp ------------------ (PM, active, 2 mixed)

                                               "Caltrans improves mobility across California
                                               "
                                               2222
Ms. Julie Gillie
June 10,2008
Page 2


  c) SB I 880/ Route 237-Calaveras Collector on-ramp------ (PM, future, 2 mixed)
  d) SB I 880/ Tasman Drive Diagonal on-ramp -------------- (PM, future, 1 mixed)

2) Currently the NB I 880 ramp meters are active during the PM peak period (3 to 7PM, Monday -
Friday), and the SB I 880 meters are to be implemented in PM peak period (3 to 7PM) by the end
of 2008.

3) The mitigation measures for impacted on-ramps and intersections to I 880 and SR 237 will also
need to be evaluated with metering operations considered. These mitigation measures may include
widening of the on-ramps for storage or High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) bypass lanes. Local
street storage approaching the on-ramps may need to be added also.

Highway Operations
1) Provide queuing analysis at the intersections of southbound (SB) I 880/ Tasman Dr. (Study
   intersection (IS) Joint #13) and at northbound (NB) I 880/ Great Mall Pkwy (liS Joint #14) for
   our review and comment.

2) Mitigation/ fair share fees are recommended on the following segments (a-b) and intersections
   (c-g) of freeways:
       a) SR 237, eastbound (EB) between McCarthy Blvd. and I 880
       b) SR 237, westbound (WB) between I 880 and Zanker Rd.
       c) SR 237/ I 880 NB ramps
       d) SR 237 (E. Calaveras Blvd. )/S Milpitas Blvd.
       e) SR 237/ Abel St.
       f) I 880 SB ramps/ Tasman Dr.
       g) I 880NB ramps/ Great Mall Pkwy.

3) Mitigation! fair share fees are recommended, at a minimum, at the following freeway
   segments:
      a) I 880 NB between SR 237 and Mission Blvd. (SR 262)
      b) I 880 SB between Great Mall Pkwy and Brokaw Rd.
      c) I 680 NB between Calaveras Blvd! SR 237 and Mission Blvd. (SR 262)
      d) 1680 SB between Yosemite Dr. and Capitol Ave.

Community Planning
The DEIR states on page viii that the developer will add a northbound left turn lane, which will
result in an acceptable PM peak hour operation at the intersection of Bellew Drive/Barber Lane. As
this will require the removal of the existing bike lanes on Barber Lane, we suggest that this
proposal be reconsidered in order to provide equal access to the road for all modes of
transportation. The Department suggests that a fully interconnected pedestrian and bicycle
network be integrated in the surrounding area of the project to promote alternative modes of
transportation and to lessen impacts to 1-880.
The I-880/Milpitas Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) station and local bus 33 are
less than a mile away from the project, consequently parking requirements should be reduced with
the expectation that people will live, shop, and potentially work within the area. In addition,
providing less parking could make housing units more affordable and attractive to households with
                               "Caltrans improves mobility across California"
Ms. Julie Gillie
June 10, 2008
Page 3


lower rates of auto ownership. This may enhance the use of mass transit and reduce vehicle trips,
therefore lessening traffic on the State and local facilities.

Should you have any questions regarding this letter, please call Jose L. Olveda of my staff at (510)
286-5535.

Sincerely,



LISA CARBONI
District Branch Chief
Local Development - Intergovernmental Review

c: Scott Morgan (State Clearinghouse)




                               "Caltrans improves mobility across California"
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

B.   RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM THE COUNTY OF
SANTA CLARA ROADS AND AIRPORT DEPARTMENT DATED MAY 29, 2008

COMMENT B-1:           The existing LOS shown is not CMA approved LOS.

RESPONSE B-1:          It is not clear if the comment pertains to one specific intersection or all of the
                       Congestion Management Program (CMP) intersections. The CMP
                       intersections were evaluated using the VTA CMP methodology and
                       thresholds of significance. Traffic impacts were evaluated using the most
                       recent intersection count information available. If available counts were older
                       than one year, then new counts were completed. For those CMP locations
                       that have shared jurisdiction with San Jose, traffic/vehicle counts were
                       obtained from the San Jose Traffix database. For those CMP locations with
                       shared jurisdiction with Milpitas, the count information was obtained from
                       the City of Milpitas Transit Area Plan. For these reasons, the LOS presented
                       in the Draft EIR for CMP intersections are considered current and accurate.

COMMENT B-2:          Please use proper existing condition analysis to calculate the impacts to the
County intersections.

RESPONSE B-2:          Please refer to Response B-1. Existing conditions are based on the most
                       recent intersection count information available. If available counts were
                       older than one year, then new counts were completed. This methodology was
                       used for all intersections to ensure a consistent, comparable analysis.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development              15                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                            August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: Bill Yeung [mailto:Bill.Yeung@rda.sccgov.org]
Sent: Thursday, May 29, 2008 10:06 AM
To: Judie Gilli
Subject: Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development - DEIR


Judie



The review of the FEIR for the subject project is complete and we have the following comments:



 1.. The existing LOS shown is not CMA approved LOS.
 2.. Please use proper existing condition analysis to calculate the impacts to the County intersections
and provide mitigations.


If you have any questions concerning the above, please contact me.



William K. Yeung, PE

Associate Civil Engineer

Land Development, Survey and Property

County of Santa Clara

Roads and Airports Department

101 Skyport Drive

San Jose, CA 95110

Phone (408)573-2463

Fax     (408)441-0276

Email:bill.yeung@rda.sccgov.org




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               16                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                           August 2008
                                        Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

C.   RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM THE SANTA CLARA
VALLEY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY DATED JUNE 16, 2008

COMMENT C-1:             Bus Service
We understand that the Milpitas Square development will be providing a new bus stop with a
duckout just north of the Landmark Towers project. Assuming this bus stop improvement is
provided, VTA will not request bus stop improvements for the Landmark Towers project.

RESPONSE C-1:          The comment is noted. As stated in Section 4.2.2.1 Bus Service in the Draft
                       EIR, Bus Route 33 operates on Barber Lane adjacent to the project site. The
                       existing bus stop will be reconstructed to provide a bus pad and duc-out to
                       compliment the planned bus stop improvements of the Milpitas Square
                       development.

COMMENT C-2:           Mitigation Measures
VTA agrees with the requirement for the project to make a fair-share contribution towards the
East-West Corridor Study, Calaveras Boulevard (SR 237) Widening, and Montague Expressway
improvements projects.

RESPONSE C-2:          The comment supports the analysis in the EIR. No further response is
                       necessary.

COMMENT C-3             Bicycle Parking
The project does not address provisions for bicycle parking. VTA supports bicycling as an important
transportation mode and thus recommends inclusion of conveniently located bicycle parking for the
development. Bicycle parking facilities can include bicycle lockers for long-tern parking and bicycle
racks for short-term parking. VTA's Bicycle Technical Guidelines provide guidance for estimating
supply, siting, and design for bicycle parking facilities. This document may be downloaded from
vww.vta.org/news/vtacmp/Bikes. For more information on bicycle systems and parking, please
contact Michelle DeRobertis, Development and Congestion Management Division, at (408) 321-
5716.

RESPONSE C-3:          The proposed project includes bicycle racks and lockable bicycle storage
                       rooms. Bicycle racks are proposed near the entrance to the retail uses and on
                       the first, second, and third floors of the above-grade parking garage. The
                       lockable bicycle storage rooms are proposed on the second and third floors of
                       the above-grade parking garage. The lockable bicycle storage rooms would
                       provide a total of approximately 60 Class I bicycle parking spaces and the
                       bicycle racks would provide a total of approximately 43 Class II bicycle
                       parking spaces. According to the VTA's Bicycle Technical Guidelines, the
                       recommended bicycle parking supply is approximately 133 Class I and 46
                       Class II bicycle parking spaces. Although the number of bicycle parking
                       spaces proposed by the project does not meet VTA's recommendations, the
                       proposed supply is considered adequate because it substantially exceeds the
                       bicycle parking space requirement in the City of Milpitas Zoning Code (see
                       table below) for mixed-use developments. Per the Zoning Code, a total of 37
                       bicycle parking spaces is required for the 375 residences (223 one-bedroom
                       units, 132 two-bedroom units, and 20 three-bedroom units) proposed by the
                       project.

Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development              17                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                       Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

                                   XI-10-38.06 Off-Street Parking
(1) Studio: one (1) covered automobile stall per unit.
(2) One (1) bedroom: one and one-half (1 1/2) covered automobile stalls per unit.
(3) Two (2) or more bedrooms: two (2) covered automobile stalls per unit.
(4) Guest parking: fifteen percent (15%) of automobile stalls required in (a) through (c) above.
(5) Bicycle parking: five percent (5%) of automobile stalls required in (1) through (4) above.

                      Section 4.2.3.2 Parking in the Draft EIR has been revised to include the
                      above information (refer to Section 4, Text Revisions, of this Final EIR).




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             18                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                         August 2008
66/16/2668    11:19        4683215787                                                                             PAGE   62/63




                       SANTA        (LARA

                       Valley Transportation Authority

     June 16,2008


     City 0 f Milpitas
     Planning Division
     455 East Calaveras BOlllevard
     Milpita,s, CA 95035-5479

     Attention: Judie Gilli .

     Subject: Landmark Tower Mixed Use

     Dear Ms. Gilli:

     Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VIA) staff have reviewed the Draft EIR for
     J 48,805 square feet ofretail, 48,960 square feet of office, and 375 residential condominiums at
     600 Barber Lane, adjacent to 1-880. We have the following comments.

     Bus Service

     We understand thal the Milpitas Square development will be providing a new bus stop with a
     duckout just north of the Landmark Towers project. Assuming this bus stop improvement is
     provided, VTA will not request bus stop improvements for the Landmatk Towers project.

     Transportation System Planning and Design

     Mitig~tion Measures
     VTA agrees' with the requirement for the project to make a fair-share contribution towards the
     EastfWe~t Conidor Study, Calaveras Boulevard (SR 237) Wideni11g, and Montague Expressway
     il11provemeTlts projects.

     On-Site   ~Ianning.and      Design

     Bicycle Parking
     The project does not address provisions for bicycle parking. VTA supports bicycling as an
     important transportation mode and thus recommends inclusion of conveniently .located bicycle
     parking for the development. Bicycle parking facilitie톝 can include bicycle lockers for long-tenn
     parking and bicycle racks for shott-telm parking. VTA's Bicycle Technical Guidelines provide
     guidance for estimating supply, siting, and design for bicycle Parking facilities. TIlis .document
     may be downloaded [rain ,vww. vta.orgIJ1ewslvtacmpiBikes. For more information on bicycle
     systemsa.l1d parking, please contact Michelle DeRobertis, Development and Congestion
     Management Division, at (408) 321-5716.




      333\ Norln firs' Ilree' . Ion lOl'. CA 91134190. Admini,troti,n 408.311.1151 (Ultomer Imi" 408.32L230D
06/16/2008     11:13    4083215787                      \ITA EH\I I ROt" PLAH                    PAGE       03/03




     City of Milpitas
     June 16, 2008
     Page 2


     Thank you for the opportunity to review this project. If you have any questions, please call me   ~t
     (408) 321-5784,

     Sincerely,           /',

   11~ /l~!{
     Roy Molseed
     Sel,iof Environmental Planner

     R1\1:kh

     ee; Sanlantha Swan, VIA
     ML070J
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

D.   RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM THE CITY OF
MILPITAS BICYCLE PEDESTRIAN ADVISORY COMMISSION DATED JUNE 16, 2008

COMMENT D-1:           The City of Milpitas Bicycle Pedestrian Advisory Commission (BPAC)
reviewed the Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) and noted the removal of bicycle lanes
along Barber Lane to accommodate diagonal parking. As the advisory body to the Milpitas City
Council for bicycle and pedestrian facilities, the BPAC historically receives presentations and
provides input on any changes to these facilities, especially removal of bicycle lanes.

Barber Lane is a great bicycle facility that can safely accommodate cars, pedestrians, and bicycles. It
is important to maintain the existing bicycle lanes as part of the greater City and regional network.
With the development of Landmark Towers and the McCarthy Ranch business area, it is important to
provide multimodal transportation, especially one that benefits both future residents and existing
employers within the area. The removal of bike lanes or fragmenting the network to accommodate
parking in one segment of Barber Lane leaves the current bicycle system inconsistent and unsafe for
bicyclists, which is disagreeable for the greater bicycling community.

The BPAC is excited to be involved in the Milpitas Bikeway Master Plan Update as it will increase
awareness of bicycling and provide recommendations for new policies to increase bicycle safety in
the City. BPAC would appreciate being involved in the development process when it impacts any
bicycle or pedestrian facilities in the future, as all modes of travel to new and existing development is
important.

RESPONSE D-1:           The Draft EIR states that a northbound left turn lane is needed to reduce the
                        project impact at the intersection of Barber Lane and Bellew Drive to a less
                        than significant level (refer to MM TR-6.1). The final design of the
                        intersection will be prepared as part of the off-site improvement plans for the
                        Milpitas Square Project. There are no impacts to the existing bicycle lane
                        facilities along Barber Lane as part of this project.

                        Section 4.2.3.2 Pedestrian, Bicycle and Pedestrian Facilities in the Draft
                        EIR has been revised to include the above information (refer to Section 4,
                        Text Revisions, of this Final EIR).




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               21                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                             August 2008
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: thebunnells [mailto:thebunnells@comcast.net]
Sent: Monday, June 16, 2008 10:18 AM
To: Judie Gilli
Subject: Landmark Tower Mixed Used Development EIR


Judie Gilli
Milpitas Planning Division
455 East Calaveras Blvd
Milpitas, CA 95035

Landmark Tower Mixed Used Development EIR

Ms. Gilli,

The City of Milpitas Bicycle Pedestrian Advisory Commission (BPAC) reviewed the Draft
Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) and noted the removal of bicycle lanes along Barber Lane to
accommodate diagonal parking. As the advisory body to the Milpitas City Council for bicycle and
pedestrian facilities, the BPAC historically receives presentations and provides input on any changes
to these facilities, especially removal of bicycle lanes.

Barber Lane is a great bicycle facility that can safely accommodate cars, pedestrians, and bicycles. It
is important to maintain the existing bicycle lanes as part of the greater City and regional network.
With the development of Landmark Towers and the McCarthy Ranch business area, it is important to
provide multimodal transportation, especially one that benefits both future residents and existing
employers within the area. The removal of bike lanes or fragmenting the network to accommodate
parking in one segment of Barber Lane leaves the current bicycle system inconsistent and unsafe for
bicyclists, which is disagreeable for the greater bicycling community.

The BPAC is excited to be involved in the Milpitas Bikeway Master Plan Update as it will increase
awareness of bicycling and provide recommendations for new policies to increase bicycle safety in
the City. BPAC would appreciate being involved in the development process when it impacts any
bicycle or pedestrian facilities in the future, as all modes of travel to new and existing development is
important.

Should you have any questions, please contact me at 263-9406. Thank you.


Sincerely,

Cheryl Bunnell
Milpitas BPAC Chair
2110 Seacliff Drive
Milpitas, CA 95035




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               22                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                             August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

E.     MILPITAS UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

COMMENT E-1:            The proposed Landmark Tower mixed-use development will be located
outside of the current Milpitas Unified School District student transportation scope of services.
Therefore, there will be student transportation (busing) provided by the Milpitas Unified
School District for Special Education students only who live in the proposed Landmark Tower
Development. There will be no regular education student transportation provided.

RESPONSE E-1:          The comment is noted. This information about student transportation does
                       not affect the analysis in the Draft EIR and would not result in any new
                       significant environmental impact. Therefore, no further response is required.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               23                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                           August 2008
                                            Milpitas Unified School District
                                            1331 E. Calaveras Blvd., Milpitas, CA 95035
                                            Web site: www.mnsd.org


                                                                                  Karl N. Black, Ed.D.
Valued ~ :<:~~~Ienged   1,:(   Successful                                                    Superintendent
                                                                         Tel: (408) 945-2310 Fax: (408) 945-2421
                                                                                        E-Dlail: kblack@mnsd.org
    May28,2008 ..



    Ms. Judie,Gilli
    Milpitas Planning Division
    455 East Calaveras Blvd.
    Milpitas, CA 95035

     Dear Ms.Gilli:

             The proposed Landmark Tower mixed-use development will be located outside of
     the current Milpitas Unified School District student transportation scope of services.
     Therefore, there will be student transportation (busing) provided by the Milpitas Unified
     School District for Special Education students only who live in the proposed Landmark
     Tower Development. There will be no regular education student transportation provided.

     Sincerely,

 ==               e ~ ~ .'-..9--_ _-"
     Karl N. Black, Ed.D.
     Superintendent
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

F.  RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM ROGER DAVIS
DATED MAY 19, 2008

COMMENT F-1:              I'm very happy to hear this project. Congratulation! Welcome the Landmark
Tower Project in Milpitas. Milpitas shall be a beautiful city in the future with this project. While
seating in the traffic jam during rush hour commuting to work from my house, I'm dreaming that one
day some developer will come up with some idea to build a condo around my work place so I can
buy one to live in and do not have to go through all these traffic's congestion. I can leave my car at
home and walk to my work place so I can SAVE a lot commuting time and money on GAS. This
project I would say is my dream come true and I guess is the same thing for all other 375 future
residents too. I love to see it happen.

RESPONSE F-1:          This comment letter supports the proposed project. No response is necessary,
                       as it does not provide any comment or question on the Draft EIR.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development              25                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: roger davis [mailto:rogerdavisev@yahoo.com]
Sent: Monday, May 19, 2008 2:34 PM
To: Judie Gilli
Subject: Welcome New Project Lanmark Tower




   Dear Mrs Gilli,



   I'm very happy to hear this project.

    Congratulation ! Welcome the Lanmark Tower Project in Milpitas. Milpitas shall be a beautiful
city in the future with this project. While seating in the traffic jam during rush hour commuting to
work from my house, I'm dreaming that one day some developper will come up with some idea to
build a condo around my work place so I can buy one to live in and do not have to go through all
these traffic's congestion. I can leave my car at home and walk to my work place so I can SAVE a
lot commuting time and money on GAS.



    This project I would say is my dream come true and I guess is the same thing for all other 375
future residents too.



   I lovev to see it happen



   Thanks God




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development              26                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

G.  RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM PATRICK PHU LE
DATED MAY 18, 2008

COMMENT G-1:             I'm writing in favor of this Landmark Project, a high rise complex completed
with luxury offices at lower levels and condos at higher levels. I do think this fits the model of
"Smart Growth" being advocated for future metropolitan projects to deal with traffic jams and
dependence on foreign oil.

We are soon reaching the retirement age and even though we currently own a home in Milpitas (1138
Belbrook Wy, Ca 95035), it's our intention to move in some kind of luxury condo that save us the
time to not worry about maintaining our front and back yard, so we can spend time traveling. Our
children are grow-up and it's harder to maintain a house these days. Of course, this kind of
development doesn't need schooling to back up since most occupants are empty nested!

We also think this fits well with the surrounding manufacturing companies that require housing for
young and single workers.

This would be a big project that brings jobs to the City.

RESPONSE G-1:           This comment letter supports the proposed project. No response is necessary,
                        as it does not provide any comment or question on the Draft EIR.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               27                                       Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

Landmark Project

May18, 2008

I'm writing in favor of this Landmark Project, a high rise complex completed with luxury offices at
lower levels and condos at higher levels. I do think this fits the model of "Smart Growth" being
advocated for future metropolitan projects to deal with trafic jams and dependence on foreign oil.

We are soon reaching the retirement age and even though we currently own a home in Milpitas (1138
Belbrook Wy, Ca 95035), it's our intention to move in some kind of luxury condo that save us the
time to not worry about maintaining our front and back yard, so we can spend time traveling. Our
children are are grow-up and it's harder to maintain a house these days. Of course, this kind of
development doesn't need schooling to back up since most occupants are empty nested!

We also think this fits well with the surrounding manfacturing companies that require housing for
young and single workers.

This would be a big project that brings jobs to the City.

Sincerely yours:

Patrick Phu Le, Ph..D.


An Thi Pham, M.D.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               28                                      Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                         August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

H.    RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM PATRICK PHU LE #2
DATED MAY 20, 2008

COMMENT H-1:           Honorable Council Members:

It's a privilege for me to write to you in favor of the proposed Landmark Project. I am resident of the
City in the last 8 years. I am also a general contractor and a developer in the last 17 years. I have
been a community activist for more than a quarter of a century. I had been serving in the Board of
Santa County Family Resources and currently I am serving in the Board of Health Advisory. My
other occupational activities are in the medical field: I am the owner of a Medical Clinic, founder and
partner of a small retail pharmaceutical Corporation.

As a leader of the Vietnamese American community and a businessman, I strongly urge the City to
approve this project that would bring jobs to the City. This project fits the kind of smart growth that
many cities have been advocating. That is to bring work, residence and shopping in a close proximity
to avoid traffic and save energy. This latter part is now very crucial for the US economy to lessen our
extreme dependence on foreign oil.

The Landmark Project has found a similar model in Santana Row Project that has proved to be very
successful in San Jose with the shops and offices at lower levels of the complex and condos at higher
levels that now are occupied by many senior residents who find at the place a very convenient and
enjoyable living style.

RESPONSE H-1:           This comment letter supports the proposed project. No response is necessary,
                        as it does not provide any comment or question on the Draft EIR.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development              29                                         Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                           August 2008
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: PAT LE [mailto:pathle8@yahoo.com]
Sent: Tuesday, May 20, 2008 12:18 PM
To: Judie Gilli
Subject: Landmark Project


   RE: Landmark Project


   Dear Ms Gilli:

   I really appreciate your help in bringing this letter to the City Council Members' attention.

   Much Thankful:


   Patrick Phu Le, Ph. D.



   Honorable Council Members:



    It's a privilege for me to write to you in favor of the proposed Landmark Project. I am resident of
the City in the last 8 years. I am also a general contractor and a developer in the last 17 yeras. I have
been a community activist for more than a quarter of a century. I had been serving in the Board of
Santa County Family Resources and currently I am serving in the Board of Health Advisory. My
other occupational activities are in the medical field: I am the owner of a Medical Clinic, founder and
partner of a small retail pharmaceutical S Corporation.

    As a leader of the Vietnamese American community and a businessman, I strongly urge the City
to approve this project that would bring jobs to the City. This project fits the kind of smart growth
that many cities have been advocating. That is to bring work, residence and shopping in a close
proximity to avoid traffic and save energy. This latter part is now very crucial for the US economy to
lessen our extreme dependence on foreign oil.

   The Landmark Project has found a similar model in Santana Row Project that has proved to be
very successful in San Jose with the shops and offices at lower levels of the complex and condos at
higher levels that now are occupied by many senior residents who find at the place a very convenient
and enjoyable living style.


   Respectfully yours:



   Patrick Phu Le, Ph. D.


Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development               30                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                             August 2008
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

I.   RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM DAVID MAC DATED
MAY 19, 2008

COMMENT I-1:           I like to live in the Milpitas city, a small and beautiful city. However, it needs
to have more high building to show a muscle of the city. Many of my cousins are living in this city.

I just learn this new project from the POST. Congratulation! What a great location for the Landmark
Tower project. It's really a convenient location for people who work and do business in the area.
Milpitas will have this kind of project for new babyboomers like me. I hate to think about one day I
have to leave Milpitas to live somewhere else that has luxury high rise, but with this project I can
remain my cousins and to live in Milpitas , close their family members, parents, because this project
offers everything my family and I need.

This project has everything under one roof plus the view. I do need to use my car. I used to visit my
friends who are living in San Francisco Bay luxury high -rise close to HW 101. They lives in the
57th floors. Wow ! what a magnificent view ! I wish someday Milpitas city will have a luxury high-
rise like that. I am so happy to hear about the Landmark Tower Project. It has only 18 floors which
is really not considered a high rise by San Francisco high-rise standard but at least, it's better to have
it than nothing at all. I can see this as the first step in the right direction to develop Milpitas that
Milpitas has embarked on.

San Francisco and Sunnyvale have already developed the high rise to follow the new trend of urban
cities living style and the demand of new young professional baby boomers. If not, we will lose this
future generation to other cities and Milpitas will stay behind other cities.

Again, please don't forget as we are proud to be the Center of High Tech Silicon Valley. I'm so
proud to see the Landmark Tower project built in Milpitas, and I'll buy one for my retirement and
enjoy.

Welcome to Landmark

RESPONSE I-1:           This comment letter supports the proposed project. No response is necessary,
                        as it does not provide any comment or question on the Draft EIR.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                31                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                              August 2008
                                        Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: david [mailto:thuanmac@earthlink.net]
Sent: Monday, May 19, 2008 11:11 AM
To: Judie Gilli
Subject: Congratulation for Milpitas City


Hi Judie,

I like to live in the Milpitas city, a small and becautiful city.
However, it needs to have more high building to show a muscle of the
city. Many of my cousins are living in this city.

I hust learn this new project from the POST. Congratulation !What a
great location for the Landmark Tower project. It's really a convenient
location for people who work and do business in the area. Milpitas will
have this kind of project for new babyboomers like me. I hate to think
about one day I have to leave Milpitas to live somewhere else that has
luxury high rise, but with this project I can remain my cousins and to
live in Milpitas , close their family members, parents, because this
project offers everything my fanily and I need.

This project has everything under one roof plus the view . I do need to
use my car. I used to visit my friends who are living in San Francisco
Bay luxury high -rise close to HW 101. They lives in the 57th floors.
Wow ! what a magnificent view ! I wish someday Milpitas city will have a
luxury high-rise like that. I am so happy to hear about the Landmark
Tower Project. It has only 18 floors which is really not considered a
high rise by San Francisco high-rise standard but at least, it's better
to have it than nothing at all. I can see this as the first step in the
right direction to develop Milpitas that Milpitas has embarked on.

San Francisco and Sunnyvale have already developed the high riseto
follow the new trend of burban cities living style and the demand of new
young professional baby boomers. If not, we will lose this future
generation to other cities and Milpitas will stay behind other cities.

Again, please don't forget as we are proud to be the Center of High Tech
Silicon Valley. I'm so proud to see the Landmark Tower project built in
Milpitas, and I'll buy one for my retirement and enjoy.

Wecome to Landmark

David Mac

408-313-7831




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             32                                     Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                      August 2008
                                           Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

J.  RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM DAN MANASSAU
DATED MAY 09, 2008

COMMENT J-1:            I saw the article in the post. I don't think building a high rise next to a
freeway is a smart use of the land.

RESPONSE J-1:           The opinion in this comment is acknowledged and may be considered by the
                        City Council during their deliberation on the proposed project. The
                        environmental impacts of the proposed use and location are identified in the
                        Draft EIR and mitigation measures are identified for impact, if feasible.

COMMENT J-2:            It should stop at floor five and not put up the residential condos.

RESPONSE J-2:           This alternative was not evaluated in the Draft EIR because it does not meet
                        the project's basic objective to build housing on the project site.

COMMENT J-3:            There is no place to build a school and no money to build it.

RESPONSE J-3:           Section 5.3 Schools of the Draft EIR evaluates the impacts of the proposed
                        project on school facilities. In accordance with state law (Government Code
                        Section 65996), the developer shall provide payment of a school impact fee
                        prior to issuance of a building permit. The school impact fees and the school
                        district's methods of implementing measures specified by Government Code
                        65996 would offset project-related increases in student enrollment.

COMMENT J-4:            Think about all the little kids playing outside breathing in all that exhaust
from the freeway.

RESPONSE J-4:           The air quality impact that could result from the proposed project, including
                        exposure to vehicle exhaust from the freeway, is evaluated in Section 4.4 Air
                        Quality of the Draft EIR. Diesel particulate matter (DPM) generated by
                        diesel-powered vehicles on the freeway is the greatest health risk to occupants
                        of the proposed project. The DPM analysis prepared for the proposed project
                        determined that future occupants of the proposed project would not be
                        exposed to hazardous DPM levels, based on the thresholds established by the
                        Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD).

COMMENT J-5:            Where is the park for them?

RESPONSE J-5:           As stated in Section 5.5 Parks of the Draft EIR, the nearest park to the
                        project site is Starlite Park, located at the intersection of Rudyard Drive and
                        North Abbott Avenue, approximately 1.7 miles northeast of the project site.
                        Starlite Park is a four-acre park with horseshoe pits, play equipment, three
                        barbeque pits, and five tables. Onsite, the proposed project includes three
                        common open-space areas that would provide a total of approximately 72,193
                        sf of open-space for use by the residents of the proposed project. In addition
                        to these common open-space areas, each of the proposed units include a
                        private balcony or patio.


Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                 33                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                               August 2008
                                       Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

COMMENT J-6:          What a lousy idea. The city is built out. No more condos!!!

RESPONSE J-6:         The opinion in this comment is acknowledged and may be considered by the
                      City Council during their deliberation on the proposed project. No further
                      response is necessary, as it does not provide any comment or question on the
                      Draft EIR.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development            34                                       Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                       August 2008
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: Dan Manassau [mailto:dmanassau@comcast.net]
Sent: Friday, May 09, 2008 9:15 AM
To: Judie Gilli
Cc: Rob Means
Subject: Billings Tower

I saw the article in the post. I don't think building a high rise next to a freeway is a smart use of the
land. It should stop at floor five and not put up the rediential condos. There is no place to build a
school and no money to build it. Think about all the little kids playing outside breathing in all that
exhast from the freeway. Where is the park for them? What a loosy idea. The city is built out. No
more condos!!!




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                35                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                              August 2008
                                           Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

K.  RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM HELEN NYGUYEN
DATED MAY 20, 2008

COMMENT K-1:             Congratulation ! my dream comes true, I like it, a high-rise project at
Milpitas.

In fact, this area, Milpitas is on the way to build more beauty for people who wanted, the high-rise
project. My kids, living in Milpitas, and I really wanted to move into this urban to enjoy my life, I'm
going to move into the Milpitas when this Landmark project get done, of course I'll buy one.

This is the most convenient location. Our city needs this kind of project for a long time ago to
compete with other surrounding cities like San Jose, Sunnyvale, San Francisco which are now
developing many high-rise for their residents. This is to improve the urban aspect of living for our
residents. It's the new trend for new babyboomers's generation. Single and couples with no children
will love to see it built. This project offers all the thing we need for the daily life with its variety of
retail stores, restaurants, luxury offices, fitness centers and park gardens. This is a pedestrian
oriented project. This location is so convenient. I'm sure as a future resident I will not have to use car
at all because everything is at walking distance mostly to my needs. I hope this is a luxury high-rise
so I can enjoy all the remedies and the magnificent view it offers that no previous project in the area
has before. It's so unique.

Please go for it, Milpitas will be a beautiful city in the future.

RESPONSE K-1:            This comment letter supports the proposed project. No response is necessary,
                         as it does not provide any comment or question on the Draft EIR.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                  36                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                              August 2008
                                           Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: Helen Nguyen [mailto:helennguyen@earthlink.net]
Sent: Tuesday, May 20, 2008 11:42 AM
To: Judie Gilli
Subject: My dream comes true

Dear Judie
Congratulation ! my dream comes true, I like it, a high-rise project at Milpitas.

In fact, this area, Milpitas is on the way to buid more beauty for people who wanted, the high-rise
project. My kids, living in Milpitas, and I really wanted to move into this urban to enjoy my life, I'm
going to move into the Milpitas when this Landmark project get done, of course I'll buy one.

This is the most convenient location. Our city needs this kind of project for a long time ago to
compete with pther surrounding cities like San Jose, Sunnyvale, San Francisco which are now
developing many high-rise for their residents. This is to improve the urban aspect of living for our
residents. It's the new trend for new babyboomers's generation. Single and couples with no children
will love to see it built. This project offers all the thing we need for the daily life with its variety of
retail stores, restaurants, luxury offices, fitness centers and park gardens. This is a pedestian oriented
project. This location is so convenient . I'm sure as a future resident I will not have to use car at all
because everything is at walking distance mostly to my needs. I hope this is a luxury high-rise so I
can enjoy all the remedies and the magnificent view it offers that no previous project in the area has
before . It's so unique.

Please go for it, Milpitas will be a beautiful city in the furure.

God Bless You
Helen Nguyen




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                 37                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                               August 2008
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

L.  RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM ALEX NICKAM
DATED MAY 19, 2008

COMMENT L-1:            I'm writing in support of the proposed new high rise building planned at the
former Billings site.

This is an excellent opportunity for Milpitas to free itself from San Jose's unwritten rule, which has
virtually, if not literally, forced a low rise limit on the entire county except its multi-billion dollar
downtown boondoggle. This would be fitting in face of the 2 million dollar law suit, when San Jose
prevented a development project on McCarthy ranch, which ensured continuous suffering for another
generation of Milpitans from its filthy 400 ton per day solid waste facility in Alviso.

As a matter of fact, I'd like to suggest that the architect and the developer increase the building height
to just over 300 feet to create a building taller than any in San Jose (perhaps even Campbell).

RESPONSE L-1:           This comment letter supports the proposed project. No response is necessary,
                        as it does not provide any comment or question on the Draft EIR.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                38                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                              August 2008
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: Alex Nicknam [mailto:alex_nicknam@yahoo.com]
Sent: Monday, May 19, 2008 9:44 PM
To: Judie Gilli
Cc: James Lindsay
Subject: New Tower at former Billings Chevrolet location

Greetings,

I'm writing in support of the proposed new high rise building planned at the former Billings site.

This is an excellent opportunity for Milpitas to free itself from San Jose's unwritten rule, which has
virtually, if not literally, forced a low rise limit on the entire county except its multi-billion dollar
downtown boondoggle. This would be fitting in face of the 2 million dollar law suit, when San Jose
prevented a development project on McCarthy ranch, which ensured continuous suffering for another
generation of Milpitans from its filthy 400 ton per day solid waste facility in Alviso.

As a matter of fact, I'd like to suggest that the architect and the developer increase the building height
to just over 300 feet to create a building taller than any in San Jose (perhaps even Campbell).

Cheers!
Alex




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                39                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                              August 2008
                                           Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

M.  RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM AN THI PHAM
DATED MAY 19, 2008

COMMENT M-1:            We're writing in support of the Landmark Project in Milpitas.

    I'm a pediatrician residing in Milpitas; I have been practicing in San Jose for quite some time.
However, it's always my goal to bring my practice close to home. I've learned about this interesting
project that advocates for the kind of office I'd prefer to have during a recent visit to a close friend of
mine in France, that is she has her medical office on the ground floor while she lives on the upper
floor. I hate the traffic that why I find that this kind of arrangement is very well fitted for
professionals like me.

    My daughter just completed her 4 yr residency at Cedar Sinai Med Center in Beverly Hills, Los
Angeles. She's holding a board of specialty in pediatrics and another board in internal medicine at the
same time. She's planning to join my practice so I can slow down my work a little bit. We do need
the kind of luxury professional offices that this project is going to provide.

    That's why we're writing this letter in support of the project that hopefully would happen soon in
our Milpitas community.

RESPONSE M-1:            This comment letter supports the proposed project. No response is necessary,
                         as it does not provide any comment or question on the Draft EIR.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                 40                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                               August 2008
                                           Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: an pham [mailto:dranpham@yahoo.com]
Sent: Monday, May 19, 2008 5:05 PM
To: Judie Gilli
Subject: Landmark Project


   Dear Ms Gilli:

   We're writing in support of the Landmark Project in Milpitas.

    I'm a pediatrician residing in Milpitas; I have been praciticing in San Jose for quite some time.
However, it's always my goal to bring my practice close to home. I've learned about this interesting
project that advocates for the kind of office I'd prefer to have during a recent visit to a close friend of
mine in France, that is she has her medical office on the ground floor while she lives on the upper
floor. I hate the traffic that why I find that this kind of arrangement is very well fitted for
professionals like me.

    My daughter just completed her 4 yr residency at Cedar Sinai Med Center in Beverlyhills, Los
Angeles. She's holding a board of specialty in pediatrics and another board in internal medicine at the
same time. She's planning to join my practice so I can slow down my work a liitle bit. We do need
the kind of luxury professional offices that this project is going to provide.

    That's why we're writing this letter in support of the project that hopefully would happen soon in
our Milpitas community.

   Faihfully yours:


   An Thi Pham, M.D. 408 274-1339 (W)           408 568-0253 (C)

   Kim Le, M.D.

   1134 Belbrook Wy

   Milpitas Ca 95035




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development                 41                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                               August 2008
                                        Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

N.  RESPONSES TO COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT EIR FROM TOM WARNEY
DATED MAY 09, 2008

COMMENT N-1:           My name is Tom Warney and I have lived in Milpitas since 1960. I want to
voice my concerns over the proposed Landmark Tower. I know that the city needs revenue and that
many of our leaders form both on the city council and various committees are real estate agents.
Building an 18 story building is not needed it our city.

RESPONSE N-1:          The opinion in this comment is acknowledged and may be considered by the
                       City Council during their deliberation on the proposed project. No further
                       response is necessary, as it does not provide any comment or question on the
                       Draft EIR.

COMMENT N-2:            Has any of our elected officials or planning committee members tried to get
around Milpitas in the morning now. We have traffic crawling through our city sometimes all the
way till 11AM. We only have two major roads that move the traffic out of the city. When the state
designed the 237 exchange they totally messed it up. We have four lanes narrowing to two lanes.
We have cars going straight as if to go to McCarthy Blvd only to go straight back onto 237 which
create additional problems.

RESPONSE N-2:          The project's traffic impacts are discussed in Section 4.2 Transportation
                       and Traffic of the Draft EIR, which is based upon a Transportation Impact
                       Analysis (TIA) prepared for the proposed project by a qualified traffic
                       engineer. The opinion in this comment is acknowledged and may be
                       considered by the City Council during their deliberation on the proposed
                       project. The comment does not raise any issues regarding the adequacy of
                       the Draft EIR. No further response is required.

COMMENT N-3:            This city does not have enough revenue to take care of the streets we
currently have. Many of them have serious damage and have not been repaired. Drive on South
Park Victoria just before Montague, or North Temple, Kennedy Drive or any of the residential areas
we have, the list goes on and on. It took me over three years of calling to have my street repaired.
Having more cars will just create bigger problems with the roadways that aren't being taken care of
now.

RESPONSE N-3:          The Draft EIR evaluates the traffic impacts of the project in terms of added
                       congestion resulting from project-generated traffic. Street maintenance is a
                       fiscal impact that is not specifically evaluated in the Draft EIR. The project
                       would not cause traffic that would significantly worsen roadway damage. No
                       further response is necessary, as this comment does not raise any issues
                       regarding the adequacy of the Draft EIR.

COMMENT N-4:             We have the major development along Abbott. We have new development
near the light rail, we have over 300 units going onto the property where Big Lots sits. We have
Shappel building behind the Town Center. The city just approved, by the way against
recommendation of the planning committee another residential area inside an industrial area. Now
you want almost 375 more units in this 18 story building. What about being to close to the earth
quake fault?


Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development              42                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                        Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

RESPONSE N-4:          As stated in Section 4.7.2.3 Fault Rupture, The project site is not located
                       within a currently designated Alquist-Priolo Fault Zone or a Santa Clara
                       County Fault Hazard Zone.

COMMENT N-5:          I am guessing that 375 units will probably add 550 cars to the roads. Where
and how are they going to move anywhere? What are people thinking?

RESPONSE N-5:          The project's traffic impacts are discussed in Section 4.2 Transportation
                       and Traffic of the Draft EIR, which is based upon a Transportation Impact
                       Analysis (TIA) prepared for the proposed project by a qualified traffic
                       engineer.

COMMENT N-6:            Now let's address the schools. Both of my children received an excellent
education here in Milpitas. How is the District going to handle these extra children in a school
system that has to rely on portables?

RESPONSE N-6:          Project impacts to the public school system are discussed in Section 5.3
                       Schools of the Draft EIR. As stated on page 134 of the Draft EIR (MM SC-
                       1), the project's impact to the public school system will be mitigated through
                       payment of a school impact fee.

COMMENT N-7:           Building an 18 story building in a small town such as ours is just WRONG!

By sending this email, I am hoping my one voice can be heard.

RESPONSE N-7:          The opinion in this comment is acknowledged and may be considered by the
                       City Council during their deliberation on the proposed project. The comment
                       does not raise any issues regarding the adequacy of the Draft EIR. No further
                       response is required.




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             43                                         Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                         Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

From: Tom & Connie [mailto:tjwarney@sbcglobal.net]
Sent: Friday, May 09, 2008 4:12 PM
To: Judie Gilli
Subject: Landmark Tower


My name is Tom Warney and I have lived in Milpitas since 1960. I want to voice my concerns over
the proposed Landmark Tower. I know that the city need revenue and that many of our leaders form
both on the city council and various committees are real estate agents. Building an 18 story building
is not needed it our city.

Has any of our elected officials or planning committee members tried to get around Milpitas in the
morning now. We have traffic crawling through our city sometimes all the way till 11AM. We only
have two major roads that move the traffic out of the city. When the state designed the 237 exchange
they totally messed it up. We have four lanes narrowing to two lanes. We have cars going straight
as if to go to McCarthy Blvd only to go straight back onto 237 which create additional problems.

This city does not have enough revenue to take care of the streets we currently have. Many of them
have serious damage and have not been repaired. Drive on South Park Victoria just before
Montague, or North Temple, Kennedy Drive or any of the residential areas we have, the list goes on
and on. It took me over three years of calling to have my street repaired. Having more cars will just
create bigger problems with the roadways that aren't being taken care of now.

We have the major development along Abbott. We have new development near the light rail, we
have over 300 units going onto the property where Big Lots sits. We have Shappel building behind
the Town Center. The city just approved, by the way against recommendation of the planning
committee another residential area inside an industrial area. Now you want almost 375 more units in
this 18 story building. What about being to close to the earth quake fault? I am guessing that 375
units will probably add 550 cars to the roads. Where and how are they going to move anywhere?
What are people thinking?

Now lets address the schools. Both of my children received an excellent education here in Milpitas.
How is the District going to handle these extra children in a school system that has to rely on
portables?

Building and 18 story building in a small town such as ours is just WRONG!

By sending this email, I am hoping my one voice can be heard.

Thank You

Tom Warney
315 Park Hill Drive
Milpitas




Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development              44                                        Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                       Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

SECTION 4             TEXT REVISIONS

The following section contains revisions to the text of the Draft Environmental Impact Report,
Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development, dated April 2008. Text additions are underlined and text
deletions are crossed-out.

Page viii     Summary, Transportation and Traffic, Mitigation and Avoidance Measures, Revise
              the text, as shown below:

              MM TR-6.1: Bellew Drive/Barber Lane - The developer shall add a northbound left
              turn lane (which requires removal of the existing bike lanes and on-street parallel
              parking on a section of Barber Lane). This improvement would provide acceptable
              PM peak hour operations at this intersection. This improvement, in conjunction with
              optimizing signal operations, would also provide acceptable midday operations at this
              intersection. [Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation]

Page 36       4.2.2.3, Background Traffic Operations, Revise the text in Table 6, as shown below:

   10. McCarthy Blvd/Tasman Dr [M]                         AM           108.0 59.8        F E+
                                                           PM           43.1 41.9          D

Page 41       4.2.3.2, Project Traffic Operations, Revise the text in Table 6, as shown below (only
              the added text is shown):

  10. McCarthy Blvd/Tasman Dr [M]       AM        59.8       E+      60.3      E     0.002       0.5
                                        PM        41.9       D       42.1      D     0.006       0.2

Page 46       Section 4.2.3.2, Pedestrian, Bicycle, and Public Transit Facilities  Revise the
              following text:

                               Pedestrian, Bicycle, and Public Transit Facilities

              The project would generate pedestrian, bicycle, and transit demand. The project site
              is well served by existing pedestrian, bicycle, and transit services. Existing sidewalks
              and a path that connects Barber Lane to Tasman Drive are provided adjacent to and in
              the vicinity of the site. Sidewalks and the path provide direct links to adjacent land
              uses and to the VTA light rail station on Tasman Drive. Crosswalks are provided at
              all major intersections in the project area. Bicycle lanes are provided on Barber Lane
              and bicycle facilities are provided on other roadways near the site. The project site is
              served by fixed-route bus service with stops located immediately south of the project
              site. These existing facilities would accommodate the increased demand generated
              by the proposed development.

              A northbound left turn lane is needed to reduce the project impact at the intersection
              of Barber Lane and Bellew Drive to a less than significant level (refer to MM TR-
              6.1). The final design of the intersection will be prepared as part of the off-site
              improvement plans for the Milpitas Square Project. There are no impacts to the
              existing bicycle lane facilities along Barber Lane as part of this project.

Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             45                                         Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                       Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

              The proposed project would not interfere with the operation of existing or planned
              pedestrian, bicycle, or public transit facilities. [Less than Significant Impact]

Page 47       Section 4.2.3.2, Parking  Add the following text:

                                                      Parking

              The project proposes 1,392 total parking spaces. The proposed project includes
              bicycle racks and lockable bicycle storage rooms. Bicycle racks are proposed near
              the entrance to the retail uses and on the first, second, and third floors of the above-
              grade parking garage. The lockable bicycle storage rooms are proposed on the
              second and third floors of the above-grade parking garage. The lockable bicycle
              storage rooms would provide a total of approximately 60 Class I bicycle parking
              spaces and the bicycle racks would provide a total of approximately 43 Class II
              bicycle parking spaces. According to the VTA's Bicycle Technical Guidelines, the
              recommended bicycle parking supply is approximately 133 Class I and 46 Class II
              bicycle parking spaces. Although the number of bicycle parking spaces proposed by
              the project does not meet VTA's recommendations, the proposed supply is
              considered adequate because it substantially exceeds the bicycle parking space
              requirement in the City of Milpitas Municipal Code (쬧I-10-38.06) for mixed-use
              developments. The bicycle parking space requirement in the Municipal Code is five
              percent of the total number of automobile parking spaces required for the residential
              uses. As shown in Table 11, 735 automobile parking spaces is required. Therefore, a
              total of 37 bicycle parking spaces is required for the proposed project. The proposed
              project includes Retail, Commercial, and Residential uses; therefore, the Mixed-Use
              District parking rate in the City of Milpitas Municipal Code (쬧I-10-38.06) is
              applicable to the proposed project. The rates and respective parking requirement for
              the proposed project are identified in Table 11.

Page 49       Section 4.2.4.4, Tasman Drive/I-880 SB Ramps and Great Mall Parkway /I-880 NB
              Ramps  Add the following text:

              There are no feasible mitigation measures available to reduce project impacts at the
              intersections of Tasman Drive/I-880 SB Ramps and Great Mall Parkway /I-880 NB
              Ramps to a less than significant level.

              Traffic from the proposed project exacerbates LOS E operations at the Tasman
              Drive/I-880 SB Ramps during the PM peak hour. The addition of a free right-turn
              movement from eastbound Tasman Drive to the southbound I-880 on-ramp would
              mitigate the impact. However, this improvement is considered infeasible due to
              right-of-way constraints. The overpass would require widening to accommodate the
              channelized eastbound right-turn movement and the elevated on-ramp would require
              widening to receive vehicles from the eastbound approach. These improvements are
              beyond the scope of an individual development and the improvement is not identified
              in an adopted Capitol Improvements Program or other funding mechanism that would
              allow for a fair-share contribution to this mitigation.

              Traffic from the proposed project exacerbates LOS E operations at the Great Mall
              Pkwy/I880 NB Ramps during the AM peak hour. Widening of the northbound I-880

Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             46                                         Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                       Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

              Ramp approach to provide a third dedicate left-turn lane would mitigate the impact.
              This mitigation is considered infeasible, because implementation of this mitigation
              would require relocation of Valley Transportation Authority Light Rail Transit
              system tracks and centenary power systems, reconstruction of the Great Mall Pkwy
              bridges over I-880, relocation of existing sound walls and fences along the east-side
              of the off-ramp, and reduce neighborhood open space within the Pines Neighborhood
              of Milpitas that is adjacent to the off-ramp. This improvement is not identified in an
              adopted Capitol Improvements Program or other funding mechanism that would
              allow for a fair-share contribution to this mitigation.

              The following measures are included in the proposed project to reduce project
              impacts at these signalized intersections to the greatest extent feasible. These
              measures shall be printed on all construction documents, contracts, and project plans:

Page 50       Section 4.2.4.5, Bellew Drive/Barber Lane  Revise the following text:

              MM TR-6.1: Bellew Drive/Barber Lane

              The developer shall add a northbound left turn lane (which requires removal of the
              existing bike lanes and on-street parallel parking on a section of Barber Lane). This
              improvement would provide acceptable PM peak hour operations at this intersection.
              This improvement, in conjunction with optimizing signal operations, would also
              provide acceptable midday operations at this intersection.

Page 50       Section 4.2.4.6, McCarthy Boulevard-O'Toole Avenue/Montague Expressway 
              Revise the following text:

              There are three options that would mitigate the project's impact at the intersection of
              McCarthy Boulevard-O'Toole Avenue /Montague Expressway to a less than
              significant level. The developer shall implement one of the following measures,
              which would reduce the project's impact at the intersection of McCarthy Boulevard-
              O'Toole Avenue /Montague Expressway to a less than significant level. Theis
              measure to be implemented shall be printed on all construction documents, contracts,
              and project plans:

              MM TR-7.1: McCarthy Boulevard-O'Toole Avenue/Montague Expressway
                         (Option 1)

              Widen the northbound approach approximately three feet to provide a dedicated right
              turn lane from northbound O'Toole Avenue to eastbound Montague Expressway.
              With this improvement, the intersection would operate at LOS D during the AM peak
              hour and LOS E during the PM peak hour. The dedicated right turn lane would
              extend from Rincon Avenue to Montague Expressway, approximately 250 feet.
              Preliminary engineering drawings indicate that this mitigation can be implemented
              within the existing right-of-way. This would be accomplished by shifting the existing
              lanes on the south leg of this intersection approximately three feet to the west. The
              south half of the intersection is within the jurisdiction of the City of San Jose and,
              therefore, the above-described mitigation is outside the control of the City of Milpitas
              to implement.

Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             47                                         Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                          August 2008
                                        Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

              MM TR-7.2: McCarthy Boulevard-O'Toole Avenue/Montague Expressway
                         (Option 2)

              If subsequent evaluation of the mitigation proposed in Option 1 determines that the
              proposed lane shift is not feasible, then right-of-way acquisition along the east side of
              the north approach would be necessary. The south half of the intersection is within
              the jurisdiction of the City of San Jose and, therefore, the above-described mitigation
              is outside the control of the City of Milpitas to implement. Mitigation that reduces
              sidewalk widths below the City standard is not allowed under City of San Jose
              Transportation Impact Policy 5-3. The standard sidewalk width in North San Jose is
              five feet. The existing sidewalk is five and one-half feet wide. Therefore, in order to
              implement this mitigation consistent with adopted policy, approximately two and
              one-half feet of right-of-way behind the sidewalk would need to be acquired from the
              adjacent private property for the length of the dedicated right turn lane. This equates
              to the acquisition of approximately 513 square feet of right-of-way (i.e., 2.5 square
              feet x 250 feet = 625 square feet). The mitigation would also require relocating
              existing utilities (e.g., a light pole). The landscape reduction and utility relocation
              would not result in a significant impact.

              MM TR-7.3: McCarthy Boulevard-O'Toole Avenue/Montague Expressway
                         (Option 3)

              A square-loop interchange is planned to be constructed at the intersection of
              McCarthy Boulevard-O'Toole Avenue /Montague Expressway under Phase 3 of the
              North San Jose Area Development Policy (NSJADP). With this planned roadway
              improvement, the intersection will operate at LOS XX and project's impact at this
              intersection will be less than significant. The City of San Jose has stated that
              payment of an in-lieu fee towards the planned square-loop interchange is acceptable
              and is the preferred mitigation for the project impact at this intersection. The dollar
              amount of the in-lieu fee would be equal to the cost to implement the lane shift
              (Option 1) or the appraised value of the right-of-way needed to construct the
              dedicated right turn lane (625 square feet, described in Option 2, above). The
              NSJADP is the adopted program that would allow for a fair-share contribution to this
              mitigation. The NSJADP does not establish a timeline for the development phases.
              The amount of development and its timing will be determined by the economy,
              markets, and the decisions made by private sector property owners and developers.
              Therefore, if the City of Milpitas accepts the City of San Jose's timeline for
              implementation of the mitigation (i.e., unknown), then payment of the in-lieu fee
              would mitigate the project's traffic impact at the intersection of McCarthy Boulevard-
              O'Toole Avenue /Montague Expressway.

              The developer shall widen or pay a fair share contribution towards the widening of
              the northbound approach to provide a dedicated right turn lane from northbound
              O'Toole Avenue to eastbound Montague Expressway, which would provide LOS D
              operations during the AM peak hour and LOS E operations during the PM peak hour.

Page 148      7.2.2.1, Interim Peak Hour Scenario LOS Analysis, Revise the text in Table 24, as
              shown below (only the added text is shown):


Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development             48                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                           August 2008
                                          Section 3 Responses to Comments Received on the Draft EIR

           10. McCarthy Blvd/Tasman         AM     59.8    E+    65.1   E   0.016     6.6
           [M]                              PM     41.9    D     44.1   D   0.049     3.7

           21. Montague Expy/N. 1st St.     AM     106.4   F    108.3   F   +0.009    +3.5
           [CMP/SJ]                         PM     107.4   F    110.4   F   +0.008    +3.1

Page 149        7.2.2.2, Interim Peak Hour Scenario Impacts  Revise the following text:

                The level of service calculations for the Interim Peak Hour Scenario were compared
                to Background Conditions. The thresholds of significance used to identify project
                impacts (refer to Section 4.2 Transportation and Traffic) were also used to identify
                Interim Peak Hour Scenario impacts. The proposed project in combination with the
                three other pending projects in the project area would impact the following 124
                intersections during the AM and/or PM peak hours:

                                   City of Milpitas Intersections

                      Impact CMTR-2:          SR 237/I-880 NB Ramps  Under the Interim Peak
                                               Hour Scenario, LOS F operations would be
                                               exacerbated during the PM peak hour.

                      Impact CMTR-3:          McCarthy Boulevard/Bellew Drive  Under the
                                               Interim Peak Hour Scenario, LOS D- operations
                                               would degrade to F during the PM peak hour.

                      Impact CMTR-4:          Bellew Drive/Barber Lane  Under the Interim Peak
                                               Hour Scenario, LOS B- operations would degrade to
                                               LOS E during the PM peak hour.

                      Impact CMTR-5:          McCarthy Boulevard/Alder Drive  Under the Interim
                                               Peak Hour Scenario, LOS F operations would be
                                               exacerbated during the PM peak hour.

                      Impact CMTR-6:          McCarthy Boulevard/Tasman Drive  Under the
                                               Interim Peak Hour Scenario, LOS F operations would
                                               be exacerbated during the AM peak hour.

                      Impact CMTR-7:          Alder Drive/Tasman Drive  Under the Interim Peak
                                               Hour Scenario, LOS F operations would be
                                               exacerbated during the PM peak hour.

                      Impact CMTR-8:          Tasman Drive/I-880 SB Ramps  Under the Interim
                                               Peak Hour Scenario, LOS E operations would be
                                               exacerbated during the PM peak hour.

                      Impact CMTR-9:          Great Mall Parkway/I-880 NB Ramps  Under the
                                               Interim Peak Hour Scenario, LOS E operations would


Landmark Tower Mixed-Use Development              49                                          Final EIR
City of Milpitas                                                                            August 2008
                                                               Traffic Data Service
                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com                                                File Name      : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                       Site Code      : 00000001
                                                                                                                                       Start Date     : 8/14/2007
                                                                                                                                       Page No        :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     I-880 SB RAMPS                              SR-237                                                                      SR-237
                        Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor 1.0       1.0 1.0 1.0                   1.0      1.0 1.0 1.0               1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                          1.0      1.0 1.0 1.0
 07:00 AM     58        0    51    0      109        93      599    0    0    692         0    0    0     0               0       0      126     0    0       126        927
 07:15 AM     62        2    49    0      113       156      551    0    0    707         0    0    0     0               0       0      130     0    0       130        950
 07:30 AM     56        3    68    0      127       161      651    0    0    812         0    0    0     0               0       0      142     0    0       142       1081
 07:45 AM     53        1    49    3      106       139      673    0    0    812         0    0    0     0               0       0      219     0    0       219       1137
       Total 229        6 217      3      455       549     2474    0    0 3023           0    0    0     0               0       0      617     0    0       617       4095

 08:00 AM       48     0    50     0       98       120 630         0     0     750          0     0    0     0           0       0     287     0    0        287       1135
 08:15 AM       62     1    55     0      118       190 664         0     0     854          0     0    0     0           0       0     231     0    0        231       1203
 08:30 AM      115     0    66     0      181       184 714         0     0     898          0     0    0     0           0       0     196     0    0        196       1275
 08:45 AM      164     0    42     0      206       125 581         0     0     706          0     0    0     0           0       0     216     0    0        216       1128
      Total    389     1   213     0      603       619 2589        0     0    3208          0     0    0     0           0       0     930     0    0        930       4741

 Grand Total618         7 430      3    1058 1168 5063              0     0    6231          0     0    0     0           0       0 1547        0    0      1547        8836
  Apprch % 58.4       0.7 40.6   0.3         18.7 81.3              0     0                  0     0    0     0                   0 100         0    0
   Total %    7       0.1 4.9      0      12 13.2 57.3              0     0     70.5         0     0    0     0           0       0 17.5        0    0       17.5




                     I-880 SB RAMPS                         SR-237                                                                        SR-237
                        Southbound                        Westbound                                 Northbound                           Eastbound
  Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM      53      1     49      3      106 139 673       0    0           812     0    0    0    0                  0 0 219     0    0                 219        1137
  08:00 AM      48      0     50      0       98 120 630       0    0           750     0    0    0    0                  0 0 287     0    0                 287        1135
  08:15 AM      62      1     55      0      118 190 664       0    0           854     0    0    0    0                  0 0 231     0    0                 231        1203
  08:30 AM 115          0     66      0      181 184 714       0    0           898     0    0    0    0                  0 0 196     0    0                 196        1275
 Total Volume  278      2 220         3      503 633 2681      0    0          3314     0    0    0    0                  0 0 933     0    0                 933        4750
 % App. Total 55.3    0.4 43.7 0.6                19.1 80.9    0    0                   0    0    0    0                    0 100     0    0
        PHF .604 .500 .833 .250             .695 .833 .939 .000 .000            .923 .000 .000 .000 .000            .000 .000 .813 .000 .000                 .813        .931
                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                                     Campbell, CA
                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                      tdsbay@cs.com                                         File Name         : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 00000002
                                                                                                                            Start Date        : 8/14/2007
                                                                                                                            Page No           :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                        CALAVERAS BLVD                   I-880 NB RAMPS                      CALAVERAS BLVD
                       Southbound                           Westbound                       Northbound                            Eastbound
 Start Time Right   Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor 1.0      1.0 1.0 1.0                    1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                      1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
 07:00 AM      0       0    0     0           0      57 585      0    0    642       73     0   81     0      154           6 210      0    0   216        1012
 07:15 AM      0       0    0     0           0      52 602      0    0    654       88     0 107      0      195           5 184      0    0   189        1038
 07:30 AM      0       0    0     0           0      60 713      0    0    773       61     0 107      0      168           9 200      0    0   209        1150
 07:45 AM      0       0    0     0           0      65 702      0    0    767       80     0   95     0      175           4 269      0    0   273        1215
       Total   0       0    0     0           0     234 2602     0    0 2836 302            0 390      0      692         24 863       0    0   887        4415

 08:00 AM      0      0     0    0            0     44 665       0     0    709    84     0   112    0        196         8 342        0      0    350     1255
 08:15 AM      0      0     0    0            0     42 730       0     0    772    76     0   115    0        191         8 288        0      0    296     1259
 08:30 AM      0      0     0    0            0     62 707       0     0    769    77     0   116    0        193         8 262        0      0    270     1232
 08:45 AM      0      0     0    0            0     57 587       0     0    644    86     0    98    0        184        12 261        0      0    273     1101
      Total    0      0     0    0            0    205 2689      0     0   2894   323     0   441    0        764        36 1153       0      0   1189     4847

 Grand Total   0      0     0    0            0    439 5291      0     0   5730  625      0 831      0      1456          60 2016      0      0   2076     9262
  Apprch %     0      0     0    0                 7.7 92.3      0     0        42.9      0 57.1     0                   2.9 97.1      0      0
   Total %     0      0     0    0            0    4.7 57.1      0     0   61.9 6.7       0    9     0       15.7        0.6 21.8      0      0   22.4




                                                      CALAVERAS BLVD               I-880 NB RAMPS                            CALAVERAS BLVD
                        Southbound                        Westbound                   Northbound                                  Eastbound
  Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM      0       0       0     0        0   65 702      0    0  767     80     0   95     0            175    4 269     0    0              273     1215
  08:00 AM      0       0       0     0        0    44 665     0    0  709     84     0 112      0            196    8 342     0    0              350     1255
  08:15 AM      0       0       0     0        0    42 730     0    0  772     76     0 115      0            191    8 288     0    0              296     1259
  08:30 AM      0       0       0     0        0    62 707     0    0  769     77     0 116      0            193    8 262     0    0              270     1232
 Total Volume   0       0       0     0        0 213 2804      0    0 3017 317        0 438      0            755   28 1161    0    0             1189     4961
 % App. Total   0       0       0     0            7.1 92.9    0    0          42     0   58     0                 2.4 97.6    0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .000             .000 .819 .960 .000 .000  .977 .943 .000 .944 .000               .963 .875 .849 .000 .000             .849      .985
                                                               Traffic Data Service
                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com                                                File Name      : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                       Site Code      : 00000001
                                                                                                                                       Start Date     : 8/14/2007
                                                                                                                                       Page No        :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     I-880 SB RAMPS                              SR-237                                                                      SR-237
                        Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor 1.0       1.0 1.0 1.0                   1.0      1.0 1.0 1.0               1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                          1.0      1.0 1.0 1.0
 04:00 PM     22        0    68    0       90       112      442    0    0    554         0    0    0     0               0       0      686     0    0      686        1330
 04:15 PM     46        0    90    0      136        93      436    0    0    529         0    0    0     0               0       0      664     0    0      664        1329
 04:30 PM     32        0    98    0      130       103      488    0    0    591         0    0    0     0               0       0      715     0    0      715        1436
 04:45 PM     51        0    81    0      132        82      457    0    0    539         0    0    0     0               0       0      735     0    0      735        1406
       Total 151        0 337      0      488       390     1823    0    0 2213           0    0    0     0               0       0     2800     0    0     2800        5501

  05:00 PM      33     0    79     0      112        84 446         0     0     530          0     0    0     0           0       0 747         0    0       747        1389
  05:15 PM      45     0    80     0      125       100 465         0     0     565          0     0    0     0           0       0 764         0    0       764        1454
  05:30 PM      37     0    74     0      111        95 446         0     0     541          0     0    0     0           0       0 764         0    0       764        1416
  05:45 PM      71     0    83     0      154        88 460         0     0     548          0     0    0     0           0       0 765         0    0       765        1467
      Total    186     0   316     0      502       367 1817        0     0    2184          0     0    0     0           0       0 3040        0    0      3040        5726

 Grand Total   337     0   653     0      990   757 3640            0     0    4397          0     0    0     0           0       0 5840        0    0      5840 11227
  Apprch %      34     0    66     0           17.2 82.8            0     0                  0     0    0     0                   0 100         0    0
   Total %       3     0   5.8     0       8.8 6.7 32.4             0     0     39.2         0     0    0     0           0       0   52        0    0          52




                     I-880 SB RAMPS                         SR-237                                                                        SR-237
                        Southbound                        Westbound                                 Northbound                           Eastbound
  Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      33      0     79      0      112    84 446     0    0           530     0    0    0    0                  0 0 747     0    0                 747        1389
  05:15 PM      45      0     80      0      125 100 465       0    0           565     0    0    0    0                  0 0 764     0    0                 764        1454
  05:30 PM      37      0     74      0      111    95 446     0    0           541     0    0    0    0                  0 0 764     0    0                 764        1416
  05:45 PM      71      0     83      0      154    88 460     0    0           548     0    0    0    0                  0 0 765     0    0                 765        1467
 Total Volume  186      0 316         0      502 367 1817      0    0          2184     0    0    0    0                  0 0 3040    0    0                3040        5726
 % App. Total 37.1      0 62.9        0           16.8 83.2    0    0                   0    0    0    0                    0 100     0    0
        PHF .655 .000 .952 .000             .815 .918 .977 .000 .000            .966 .000 .000 .000 .000            .000 .000 .993 .000 .000                 .993        .976
                                                            Traffic Data Service
                                                                      Campbell, CA
                                                                       (408) 377-2988
                                                                       tdsbay@cs.com                                   File Name         : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                       Site Code         : 00000002
                                                                                                                       Start Date        : 8/14/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No           :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                        CALAVERAS BLVD                   I-880 NB RAMPS                 CALAVERAS BLVD
                     Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                       Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                         1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
 04:00 PM      0     0    0     0             0      49 384      0    0    433 140          0 143      0   283       59 652       0    0   711        1427
 04:15 PM      0     0    0     0             0      52 370      0    0    422 175          0 148      0   323       53 723       0    0   776        1521
 04:30 PM      0     0    0     0             0      53 388      0    0    441 205          0 165      0   370       54 731       0    0   785        1596
 04:45 PM      0     0    0     0             0      56 363      0    0    419 196          0 149      0   345       61 743       0    0   804        1568
       Total   0     0    0     0             0     210 1505     0    0 1715 716            0 605      0 1321 227 2849            0    0 3076         6112

  05:00 PM      0     0     0     0           0     60 427        0     0    487    213     0   141     0     354    65 783       0      0    848     1689
  05:15 PM      0     0     0     0           0     48 404        0     0    452    212     0   168     0     380    56 749       0      0    805     1637
  05:30 PM      0     0     0     0           0     29 347        0     0    376    188     0   165     0     353    62 759       0      0    821     1550
  05:45 PM      0     0     0     0           0     40 359        0     0    399    193     0   155     0     348    58 753       0      0    811     1558
      Total     0     0     0     0           0    177 1537       0     0   1714    806     0   629     0    1435   241 3044      0      0   3285     6434

 Grand Total    0     0     0     0           0  387 3042         0     0   3429 1522       0 1234      0    2756   468 5893      0      0   6361 12546
  Apprch %      0     0     0     0             11.3 88.7         0     0        55.2       0 44.8      0           7.4 92.6      0      0
   Total %      0     0     0     0           0 3.1 24.2          0     0   27.3 12.1       0 9.8       0      22   3.7   47      0      0   50.7




                                                      CALAVERAS BLVD               I-880 NB RAMPS                 CALAVERAS BLVD
                        Southbound                        Westbound                   Northbound                       Eastbound
  Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM      0       0       0     0        0    53 388     0    0  441 205        0 165      0   370       54 731       0    0   785              1596
  04:45 PM      0       0       0     0        0    56 363     0    0  419 196        0 149      0   345       61 743       0    0   804              1568
  05:00 PM      0       0       0     0        0   60 427      0    0  487 213        0 141      0   354       65 783       0    0   848              1689
  05:15 PM      0       0       0     0        0    48 404     0    0  452 212        0 168      0   380       56 749       0    0   805              1637
 Total Volume   0       0       0     0        0 217 1582      0    0 1799 826        0 623      0 1449 236 3006            0    0 3242               6490
 % App. Total   0       0       0     0           12.1 87.9    0    0          57     0   43     0            7.3 92.7      0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .000             .000 .904 .926 .000 .000  .924 .969 .000 .927 .000      .953 .908 .960 .000 .000        .956               .961
