                        CITY OF POMONA
                  PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA
          POMONA, CALIFORNIA ­ CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS
             505 South Garey Avenue, Pomona, CA 91769

                   SPECIAL MEETING OF
             WEDNESDAY, January 29, 2014 @ 7:00 PM

A.   CALL TO ORDER:                Chair Denton Mosier

B.   FLAG SALUTE:                  Chair Denton Mosier

C.   ROLL CALL:                    Brad Johnson, Planning Manager

     Chair Denton Mosier; Vice Chair Edward Starr; Commissioner Kenneth Coble;
     Commissioner Daryl S. Beans; Commissioner Oscar Ixco; Commissioner
     DeAndre D. Valencia and Commissioner Luis M. Juarez

D.   PUBLIC PARTICIPATION (Three (3) minute Limit on Non-Agenda Items Only):

     1.     At this time, the general public is invited to address the Planning Commission
            concerning any items that are not listed on the agenda, which are not public
            hearings, or other items under the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission.
            Comments from the public of any non-agenda items will be limited to three (3) minutes
            in accordance with City policy.

     2.     Any applicant or member of the public wishing to speak on any item that is listed
            on the agenda is requested to adhere to the following protocol
            procedures/guidelines:

            a) Prior to the meeting, or during the meeting prior to an agenda item being discussed, any
               person wishing to address the Planning Commission shall complete a speaker card and
               submit it to the Planning Manager. Speaker cards are available in the foyer of the City
               Council Chambers and from the Minutes Clerk.

            b) When called upon, the person shall come to the podium, state his/her name and address
               for the record, and, if speaking for an organization or other group, identify the
               organization or group represented. Whenever any group of persons wishes to address the
               Planning Commission on the same subject matter, the Chair may, at his/her discretion,
               request that the group choose a spokesperson to address the Commission.

            c) All remarks should be addressed to the Planning Commission as a whole, and not to
               individual Commissioners. Questions, if any, should be directed to the presiding Chair
               who will determine whether, or in what manner, an answer will be provided.

            d) Every person addressing the Planning Commission will be limited to three (3) minutes or
               such reasonable time as is granted by the majority of the Planning Commission.


Planning Commission Agenda                  January 29, 2014                                    Page 1
E.   CONSENT CALENDAR:

     Note: All items listed on the Consent Calendar may be enacted by a single motion without
     separate discussion. If a discussion or a separate vote on any item is desired by a Planning
     Commissioner, that item may be removed from the Consent Calendar and considered
     separately. All remaining items not removed from the Consent Calendar by a Planning
     Commissioner shall be voted on prior to discussion of the item(s) requested to be pulled.

     1.     APPROVAL OF PC MINUTES:

            None

F.   PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS:

     1.     GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT (GPA 14-001)
            GPA 14-001 is a City initiated amendment to the Pomona General Plan to update the
            Housing Element for the planning period October 15, 2013 through October 15, 2021.

            Recommended Action:
            The Planning Division recommends that the Planning Commission adopt the attached
            Resolution recommending City Council approval of General Plan Amendment (GPA 14-
            001).

     2.     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP 13-008); CHANGE OF ZONE (CZ 13-
            001); GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT (GPA 13-002); VARIANCE (VAR 13-
            001); TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP (TPM 13-001)
            Project Address:     934 & 942 W. Holt Avenue
            Project Applicant:   Related California
            Project Planner:     Leonard Bechet, Assistant Planner
            Council District:    CC District No. 1

            Project Description:
            Conditional Use Permit for the development of a 62-unit residential development that
            includes affordable and supportive housing, Change of Zone to change the zoning
            designation from C-IND (Commercial Industrial) to R-4 (High Density Residential);
            General Plan Amendment to change the Land Use designation from Industrial to High
            Density Residential; and Tentative Parcel Map to consolidate three separate parcels
            into one parcel.

            Recommended Action:
            The Planning Division recommends that the Planning Commission adopt the attached
            Resolutions approving Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-030), Change of Zone (CZ 13-
            001), General Plan Amendment (GPA 13-002), Variance (VAR 13-001), and Tentative
            Parcel Map (TPM 13-001), subject to conditions.

     3.     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP 13-020) & TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP
            (13-003)
            Project Address:   1875 W. Mission Boulevard
            Project Applicant: Seventh Street Development
            Project Planner:   Brad Johnson, Planning Manager
            Council District:  CC District No. 5


Planning Commission Agenda                January 29, 2014                               Page 2
              Project Description:
              Conditional Use Permit for the development of an industrial park consisting of four
              industrial buildings totaling 497,,750 square feet and Tentative Parcel Map (TPM 13-
              003) to subdivide two lots into four lots on a 23.4 acre site in the M-1 (Light Industrial)
              zone.

              Recommended Action:
              The Planning Division recommends that the Planning Commission adopt the attached
              Resolutions approving Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-020) and Tentative Parcel Map
              (TPM 13-003), subject to conditions.

       4.     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP 13-003) & STREET VACATION (V-307)
              Project Address:   2205 Mount Vernon Avenue
              Project Applicant: Overton Moore Properties
              Project Planner:   Brad Johnson, Planning Manager
              Council District:  CC District No. 1

              Project Description:
              Conditional Use Permit for the development of a 276,000 square foot
              warehouse/distribution building on an approximately 18.5 acre site in the M-1 (Light
              Industrial) zone and Street Vacation (V-307) for the vacation of a portion of Mount
              Vernon Avenue between Humane Way and the Chino Valley Freeway (SR-71).

              Recommended Action:
              The Planning Division recommends that the Planning Commission adopt the attached
              Resolutions approving Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-003) and Street Vacation (V-
              307), subject to conditions.

G.     NEW BUSINESS:

H.     PLANNING COMMISSION COMMUNICATIONS:

I.    PLANNING MANAGER COMMUNICATIONS:

J.     ADJOURNMENT:

       The City of Pomona Planning Commission is hereby adjourned to the regularly scheduled
       meeting of February 12, 2014 starting at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chambers.



                       *** CERTIFICATION OF POSTING AGENDA ***

 I, Mark Lazaretto, Community Development Director for the City of Pomona, hereby certify that the
 agenda for the January 29, 2014, Planning Commission meeting was posted on Thursday, January
 23, 2014.




                                                                   Mark Lazaretto
                                                                   Community Development Director




Planning Commission Agenda                    January 29, 2014                                  Page 3
F2 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
F3 ­ 1875 W. Mission Blvd.
F4 ­ 2205 Mount Vernon Ave.




                                    F2

                      F4


                           F3




Planning Commission Agenda      January 29, 2014   Page 4
                   CITY OF POMONA
           PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
DATE:        January 29, 2014

TO:          Chairperson and Members of the Planning Commission

FROM:        Planning Division

SUBJECT:     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP 13-008) VARIANCE (VAR 13-001),
             TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP (TPM 13-001), CHANGE OF ZONE (CZ 13-
             001) AND GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT (GPA 13-002):
             An application for Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-008) for the development of
             a 62-unit residential development which includes affordable and supportive
             housing; Variance (VAR 13-001) to vary from development standards; Tentative
             Parcel Map (TPM 13-001) to consolidate three lots into one lot; Change of Zone
             (CZ 13-001) to change the zoning designation from C-IND (Commercial
             Industrial) to R-3 (Medium Density Multiple Family); and a General Plan
             Amendment (GPA 13-002) to change the Land Use designation from Industrial to
             High Density Residential for a 108,729 square foot parcel (2.49 acres) located at
             934-942 W. Holt Avenue.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Division recommends that the Planning Commission adopt the
attached Resolutions (Attachments 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) approving Conditional Use Permit
(CUP 13-008), Variance (VAR 13-001), Tentative Parcel Map (TPM 13-001), Change of
Zone (CZ 13-001), and a General Plan Amendment (GPA 13-002), subject to conditions.

PROJECT/APPLICANT INFORMATION

   Project Location:       934-942 W. Holt Avenue
   APN Information:        8348-009-906, 8348-009-907, 8348-009-908
   Project Applicant:      Related California
   Property Owners:        City of Pomona
   CC District:            District #1
   Historic/CBD:           N/A
   Specific Plan:          Draft Corridor Specific Plan: Downtown Gateway Segment




                            City of Pomona Planning Division
                    Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 2 of 15

PROJECT BACKGROUND AND DESCRIPTION

The project site is located on four parcels at 934 and 942 W. Holt Avenue, on the south side
of Holt Avenue between Hamilton Blvd. and Filmore Pl. (Attachment 6), in the C-
IND (Commercial Industrial) zone. The project site is approximately 108,729 square feet (2.49
acres) in size with the majority of the site developed with a mobile home park and the
remainder of the site vacant.

The applicant, Related, is proposing to construct a 62-unit residential development that will
provide low-income and supportive housing for individuals with a disability, mental illness or a
person identified as part of a Special Needs Population as defined by the State Mental Health
Services Act (MHSA).

The proposed mix of units includes the following:

   No. of Bedrooms             Quantity                     Size
 1 ­ Bedroom             16                       600 sq. ft.
 2 ­ Bedroom             27                       801 sq. ft.
 3 ­ Bedroom             19                       1,140 sq. ft.


Of the 62-units, 41 will be tax credit units which are available to families whose income is
between 40% to 60% of the area median income and rents will be restricted to 30% or less of
household income, typically ranging between $734 and $1272 per unit per month. The
remaining 21-units will be set aside for the exclusive use of the MHSA eligible Tri-City Mental
Health (TCMH) clients and/or families with at least one person who is a client of TCMH and is
MHSA eligible.

TCMH, a local public agency that provides mental health services to the communities of
Pomona, Claremont and La Verne, will be staffing and providing services to the proposed
project. TCMH will provide full time, on-site case managers and full time, on-site resident
service coordinators for the project. Services provided will focus on improving stability, self
sufficiency, benefits enrollment assistance, mental health, medication management, counseling,
job training and life skills development.

The development will be managed by the John Stewart Company and Shield of Faith, a local
religious institution, will be providing social services such as adult educational classes and an
after-school program for the tenants of the tax credit units. Furthermore, the project will have a
restrictive covenant in place from the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee for a
minimum of 55 years in order to keep the units affordable, as described above.

The project consists of one 3-story building with a multipurpose room/community center, offices
for property management and case management staff, laundry rooms, and 1 and 2 bedroom
apartments. There are three additional buildings which house 2 and 3 bedroom, 2-story
townhouse style units. The remainder of the site is used for parking and open space which

                             City of Pomona Planning Division
                     Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 3 of 15

consists of a large village green for exclusive use by the residents, and two small public parks
located along the Holt Ave. street frontage.

Applicable Code Sections ­ Draft Corridor Specific Plan

The subject property is currently zoned C-IND (Commercial Industrial) and the applicant is
requesting that the zone be changed to R-4 (High Density Multiple Family Residential) to allow
the residential use and density that is being proposed. The project would typically be required to
comply with development standards set forth in the Pomona Zoning Ordinance for properties
within the R-4 zone. However, the subject project is designed to comply with the development
standards of the Draft Corridor Specific Plan (hereinafter "Specific Plan"). The Specific Plan is
not yet adopted; however, the project applicant has voluntarily agreed to design the project to
comply with the Specific Plan in anticipation of its adoption by the City Council. The Specific
Plan is tentatively scheduled for City Council adoption in early March, 2014.

In an effort to ensure compliance with the Specific Plan, Staff consulted with Freedman Tsung +
Sasaki (FTS), the firm that prepared the Specific Plan. After working with the applicant's
architect, Staff determined that the proposed project is in substantial conformance with the
Specific Plan as it relates to, but not limited to, site layout, landscaping, open space, design and
architecture, and street improvements.

The purpose of the Specific Plan is to coordinate private and public investment activities along
the Garey Avenue, Holt Avenue, Mission Boulevard and Foothill Boulevard Corridors. The
Specific Plan establishes the primary means of regulating land use and development projects
with prescribed standards and guidelines in an effort to achieve the community's vision and
continued growth of the corridors.

The subject project is located on Holt Avenue, on a portion of the corridor designated as
Downtown Gateway Segment, and is subject to the development standards and guidelines
specified in Section 2.1.7 of the draft Specific Plan.

Surrounding Land Use Information

The project site is located in a geographical area containing a mix of commercial, industrial, and
residential land uses. Abutting the site to west is a single-story retail building, and beyond that
are vacant lots, and additional residential, commercial, and industrial uses. To the south, is a mix
of single and multi-family residential uses. Commercial uses primarily abut the site to the east
and across Holt Avenue to the north. The table below summarizes surrounding land uses, zoning,
and General Plan designations pertaining to the project site.
                                   Land Use Summary Table
                                               Current Zoning
                      Existing Land Use                              General Plan Designation
                                                Designation
  Subject Site       Mobile Home Park               C-IND                    Industrial


                              City of Pomona Planning Division
                      Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 4 of 15

                                                Current Zoning
                    Existing Land Use                                    General Plan Designation
                                                 Designation
                 Multi-Family Residential            R-2                 Low Density Residential
    North
                 Commercial Retail/Motels            C-4                  General Commercial
                   Multi/Single Family
     South                                           R-2                 Low Density Residential
                       Residential
                   Commercial Retail
     East                                          C-IND                        Industrial
                       Vacant Land
                   Commercial Retail               C-IND                       Industrial
     West
                       Vacant Land                  R-2                  Low Density Residential

ZONING COMPLIANCE ANALYSIS

Site Development Standards
The project site is located in the Draft Corridor Specific Plan area, within the Downtown
Gateway Segment district. Based on staff's analysis, the project meets and/or exceeds the
minimum development standards of the draft Specific Plan. Compliance with the required
development standards will ensure that the site is developed in a manner consistent with the
purpose and intent of the Specific Plan. The following table summarizes the proposed project
and its compliance with the applicable development standards:
                                   Project Summary Table
   Development          Draft Specific Plan                Proposed Project            Compliance
    Standards                                                                         Determination
    Building         Minimum 1 story (20')           Bldg #1: 3 stories (37'6")              Yes
     Height           Maximum 3 stories             Bldg #2-4: 2 stories (23'1")
    Building               300 ft.                       Bldg #1: 213 ft.                    Yes
     Length                                         Bldg #2-4: 85 ft. ­ 170 ft.
    Building             3L:2H to 5L:2H                  1.95 ­ 2.31 ratio                   Yes
    Massing
    Building       Street & Public Open Space       Street & Public Open Space               Yes
   Orientation
     Private          Common Lobby Entry              Common Lobby Entry                     Yes
    Frontage
      Type
   Front Yard         12 ft. min.-20 ft. max.              12 ft. to 18.5 ft.                Yes
    Setback
   Side Yard                10 ft min.                           10ft+                       Yes
    Setback
   Rear Yard                10 ft min.                           10 ft                       Yes
    Setback



                            City of Pomona Planning Division
                    Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 5 of 15

   Development          Draft Specific Plan              Proposed Project            Compliance
    Standards                                                                       Determination
    Frontage                 50% min.                           86%                     Yes
    Coverage
     Distance                20 ft min.                       20 ft. +                  Yes
  Between Bldg
  Improvements          12'-16' sidewalk                   16' sidewalk                 Yes
    to Streets         Eight 5x5 tree wells            Eight 5x5 tree wells
                     London Plane street tree        London Plane street tree
                    Pedestrian scale street light   Pedestrian scale street light
  Public Open           9,300 sq. ft. min.                 12,800 sq. ft.               Yes
      Space
  Private Open           3,720 sq. ft. min.                 4,899 sq. ft.               Yes
      Space
  Setback Area Perimeter Block: Boulevard             Compliant landscaping             Yes
  Landscaping              Landscaping
     Parking                 92 min.                             75                     Yes*
    Standards
*Pursuant to a Parking Study

Circulation, Access & Parking

Access to the site will occur from Holt Avenue via a new driveway (Attachment 7). The
project includes a total of 75 on-site parking spaces for motor vehicles. Nine spaces will be
located along the new driveway, accessible to Holt Avenue while the remaining sixty-six
spaces will be located within an uncovered secured parking area along the driveway and at
the rear of the project site. The parking spaces consist of 72 standard stalls and 3
handicapped van stalls. In addition to the spaces for motor vehicles, the project will be
conditioned to provide bicycle racks to facilitate bicycle parking.

A Parking Demand Study was completed for the subject project (see Attachment 13). The
study concludes that, based on a review of a similar project built by the applicant, the proposed
parking ratio of 0.5 spaces per MHSA restricted units (21 units), 1 space per half of the 2-
bedroom units (11 units), 1.5 spaces for the other half of the 2-bedroom units (11 units), and
1.5 spaces for all of the 3-bedroom units (19 units) is an appropriate parking supply to meet
parking demand, given the project's target resident. The study indicates that the total parking
supply of 75 parking spaces is sufficient to provide adequate parking for the project.

Architectural Elevations

The project architect has proposed integrating a contemporary style of architecture
(Attachment 8). The project proposes 62-units within four detached buildings. Building #1,
which fronts directly onto Holt Avenue is three stories in height and features a common
lobby entry at the
                            City of Pomona Planning Division
                    Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 6 of 15

northwest corner of the building (Holt Ave. and the Driveway). The building exterior walls will
consist of a smooth plaster finish. Two primary wall colors will be utilized; an off-white color
and a light green color. Brown and a cream color will be utilized to provide accent color
throughout the building. Articulation is provided through the use of recessed windows and
entries, metal awnings over window openings, wall plane variation and the use of brick in
several locations along the base of the building. The massing of the building is broken up by
projecting balcony towers which are clad with a combination of cement siding and stucco.
Furthermore, a tower feature is incorporated into the main entrance of the building with a brick
base.

The remaining buildings (buildings 2-4) will front onto the new driveway or onto the common
open space areas. Exterior walls will consist of a combination of smooth plaster finish, cement
siding, and brick. Two primary colors will be utilized; a cream color and a light green color.
Brown and the red color of the brick veneer will be utilized to provide accent coloring
throughout the building. Articulation is provided through the use of recessed window and door
openings, canopies over windows, recessed building walls and front entrance stoops with brick
clad columns.

Landscaping

Despite the urban nature of the proposed development, it includes a generous amount of
landscaping distributed among various landscaped setbacks, a pocket park and a "village green"
area located in the center portion of the site. The village green will be used exclusively by the
residents, while the pocket park will be located adjacent to the Holt Avenue and will provide a
small garden along with seating for pedestrians to use as they walk past the project. The
approximate 19,132 sq. ft. of total landscaping includes a varied mix of trees, shrubs and ground
covers.

ISSUES ANALYSIS

Issue 1: General Plan Conformity

The proposed redevelopment of an underutilized 108,729 square foot (2.49 acres) site located on
a major thoroughfare with a well-designed residential, low-income, development targeted at
assisting families and individuals with disabilities or mental illnesses, will help to revitalize this
segment of Holt Avenue and improve the character of this area. The proposed project is
consistent with the Draft Corridor Specific Plan intent for the Downtown Gateway Segment.
Furthermore, the proposed project is consistent with the following policies of the General Plan:

       "It is the policy of the City of Pomona to encourage, with all means possible, the
       economic development and redevelopment of Pomona by the private sector."

       "It is the policy of the City of Pomona to support the efforts and the work of groups to
       guarantee equal opportunity in obtaining housing."


                              City of Pomona Planning Division
                      Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 7 of 15

       "It is the policy of the City to encourage the construction of new low-density
       developments and to be receptive to medium or higher density residential uses if properly
       located."

Issue 2: Draft Corridor Specific Plan Compliance

The Downtown Gateway Segment identifies strategies and visions that the Specific Plan intends
to achieve. Staff has determined that the proposed project is consistent with and helps achieve
the following strategies and visions:
.
        1. Encourage the gradual transition of these segments to more pedestrian-oriented and
           distinctive building types and site treatments.

       2. Encourage multifamily development to mix compatibly with commercial, office and
          lodging neighbors.

       3. Add entitlements to allow infill residential uses throughout the Holt Avenue segment.

Furthermore, staff has evaluated the proposal in terms of conformance to the development
standards of the draft Specific Plan. As mentioned in the Zoning Compliance Analysis section,
the project conforms to the development standards of the draft Specific Plan. Therefore, the
granting of the Conditional Use Permit will not adversely affect the intent and purpose of the
draft Specific Plan.

Issue 3: Housing Element Compliance

As a component of the Pomona General Plan, the Housing Element presents an analysis of the
City's demographic, housing and economic characteristics and a comprehensive set of housing
goals, policies and actions for the years 2008 through 2014. The Housing Element is built upon
an assessment of the City's housing needs and an evaluation of housing programs, available land
and constraints on housing production.

California Housing Element law requires that each jurisdiction update its Housing Element every
five years and that the Housing Element include, but not limited to, the following:

       An analysis of local constraints on developing housing for all income levels; and
       An enactment of programs that assist the development of affordable housing.

Staff has determined that the proposed project is consistent with and helps achieve the following
goals and policies of the Housing Element:

Housing for Special Needs Groups
10-P-24       Support programs that provide decent and affordable housing to accommodate
              State-identified special needs groups--female-headed households, seniors, the

                             City of Pomona Planning Division
                     Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 8 of 15

              disabled, large families and the homeless--with emphasis on groups having a
              more significant presence in Pomona.

10-P-25       Encourage the provision of social services in conjunction with housing developed
              for lower-income and special needs households.

10-P-26       Support housing development accessible to the elderly and disabled persons, and
              promote programs that increase the ability of the elderly and the disabled to
              remain in their homes.

10-P-27       Promote "inter-generational" housing that accommodates and capitalizes on the
              social benefits of extended family members living in close proximity to each
              other.

10-P-28       Continue promoting activities and programs that meet the special needs of the
              homeless population through 1) cooperation with other agencies and
              organizations with specialized expertise in this area of need and 2) coordination
              with surrounding cities on regional programs and facilities.

Housing Creation for Lower-Income Residents
10-P-29       Meet the City's share of the regional housing need, prioritizing new workforce
              housing construction affordable to low- and moderate-income households.

10-P-30       Encourage the distribution of affordable housing throughout the City to create
              economically diverse neighborhoods.

10-P-31       Provide financial and/or regulatory incentives to facilitate the development of
              affordable housing.

10-P-32       Maintain the supply of rental housing available and affordable to low- and
              moderate-income households.

Issue 4: Zoning Ordinance Compliance

Staff has evaluated the proposed site design and has determined that the proposed development is
in substantial conformance with the development standards of the proposed R-4 (High Density
Multiple Family), with the exception of the requested variances (see Issue 8:Variance below).
With the exception of the variance request, development standards are all in compliance with the
Zoning Ordinance and the requested residential use and proposed density is in conformance with
the R-3 (Medium Density Multiple Family) zone. The proposed project, with the requested
variances, conforms to the Zoning Ordinance and, as a result, the granting of this Conditional
Use Permit will not adversely affect the Zoning Ordinance.




                             City of Pomona Planning Division
                     Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 9 of 15

Issue 5: Land Use Compatibility/Neighborhood Context

The applicant is proposing to develop a 62-unit residential, low-income, development targeted at
assisting individuals with disabilities or mental illnesses, which is compatible with surrounding
commercial and residential uses, and is consistent with development expected in this portion of
Holt Avenue that is characterized by light industrial, commercial and high density residential
uses. In addition, the materials and architecture of the project aesthetically complement the
surrounding neighborhood and commercial character of Holt Avenue.

Issue 6: Change of Zone

The applicant is requesting a Change of Zone (CZ 13-001) to change the zoning designation
from C-IND (General Commercial) to R-4 (High Density Multiple Family) (Attachment 4
­ Exhibits A & B). The subject site is located at the edge of a residential area, abutting
Holt Avenue to the south. The properties to the north and northwest are zoned R-2 and C-4,
properties along Holt Boulevard are currently zoned C-IND and C-4, and properties located to
the south are zoned R-2. However, it is anticipated that when the Specific Plan is adopted, this
portion of Holt Avenue will be part of the Corridor Specific plan.

It is not expected that the Change of Zone to include the subject site as part of the R-4 zone
category would be detrimental to the adjacent residential neighborhood as the R-4 zone is
intended to provide for and encourage the development of multi-family residential housing.
Furthermore, it is not expected that the proposed residential housing would be detrimental to the
adjacent commercial use in that the proposed use would add additional pedestrians to the
commercial corridor and an additional customer base.

As previously mentioned, the applicant is requesting the Change of Zone to R-4 in order to allow
the residential component of the project on the subject lot and redevelop the site to provide a
residential, low-income, development targeted at assisting families and individuals with
disabilities or mental illnesses, and utilizing development standards and guidelines from the
Draft Specific Plan in anticipation of its adoption by the City Council.

Issue 7: General Plan Amendment

The applicant is requesting General Plan Amendment (GPA 13-002) to change the Land Use
designation from General Commercial to High Density Residential in order to facilitate Change
of Zone (CZ 13-001) and allow the residential component of the project on the subject site. The
subject site is located in the center of two residential areas, abutting Holt Avenue to the north and
south. The properties to the north and northwest have a land use designation of General
Commercial and Low Density Residential. The properties along Holt Boulevard currently have a
land use designation of General Commercial and Industrial. However, it is anticipated that when
the Specific Plan is adopted, this portion of Holt Avenue will be part of the Corridor Specific
Plan. If the General Plan Amendment is granted, a new High Density Residential land use
category will be created to include the subject property and facilitate the proposed development.


                              City of Pomona Planning Division
                      Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 10 of 15

Issue 8: Variance

The purpose of the Specific Plan is to provide and establish planning and design framework to
enhance the economic performance, functionality and appearance of Pomona's major corridors.
A major emphasis is put on providing open spaces and landscaping elements that are well
designed and developed with a varied network of inter-connected public spaces that enhance the
livability of the area. Similar attention is provided to ensure that streets are upgraded to create
safe and attractive streetscape environments to encourage walking, biking and use of public
areas. Architecture and site layout are key to ensure that the plan area develops into an
aesthetically superior development that contributes to the emergence of an increasingly visible
and memorable visual identity.

A number of these goals are achieved by the quality of the physical development that is entitled.
The project proposed under this application is consistent with the vision and goals of the Specific
Plan; however the Specific Plan and is not yet adopted and the project is currently subject to the
development standards of the requested R-4 (High Density Multiple Family) zone. The R-4 zone
is intended to provide for the establishment of high density multi-family residential development.
In order to achieve compliance with the Specific Plan, the applicant is requesting relief from R-4
development standards related to setbacks, parking and unit sizes, as delineated in the following
table:
                                      Variance Request Table
  Development                   R-4                      Proposed Specific Plan:
   Standards                                           Downtown Gateway Segment

   Front Yard
                              25 feet                            13-20 feet
    Setback

  Private Open           100 sq. ft. ground
                                                             60 sq. ft. per unit
      Space            70 sq. ft. upper floors
    Common
                        300 sq. ft. per unit                 150 sq. ft. per unit
   Open Space
                             92 Spaces
                                                                    75*
     Parking          Spaces within garage or
                                                       Open surface parking spaces
                             carport
* Per parking study

ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS/DETERMINATION

Pursuant to the Guidelines for Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) found in the California Public Resources Code, Staff hired LSA Associates, Inc., to
prepare an Initial Study to assess the potential effects of this project on the environment.
The Initial Study (Attachment 10) found that the proposed project could have a significant
impact on
                              City of Pomona Planning Division
                      Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 11 of 15

the environment in relation to Biological Resources, Cultural Resources, and Geology and Soils.
However, it was also found that if mitigation measures were added to the project, the impacts
could be reduced to levels less than significant. The mitigation measures have been incorporated
as conditions of approval in the draft resolution for the project. Consistent with CEQA, a
Mitigated Negative Declaration of Environmental Impact has been prepared for the project for
consideration by the Planning Commission.

Biological Resources

A search of the California Natural Diversity Database (CNDDB) determined that there are five
sensitive plant species and four sensitive animal species within a two-mile radius of the project
site. The sensitive plant species include: intermediate mariposa-lily (Calochortus weedii var.
intermedius), many-stemmed dudleya (Dudleya multicaulis), mesa horkelia (Horkelia cuneata
var.puberula), Robinson's pepper-grass (Lepidium virginicum var. robinsonii), and San
Bernadino aster (Symphyotrichum defoliatum). None of the plants have a federal or state listing
status (CDFW, 2013). The California Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) rank is either
1b.1 or 1b.2 for each plant species, which indicates that they are all rare or endangered in
California and elsewhere. However, the project site is currently developed with a mobile home
park and the vacant portions of the site are highly disturbed. The project site is surrounded by
urban uses, primarily consisting of paved surfaces. In addition, there have been no recorded
sightings of these species on the project site. As such, the project site would not provide
suitable habitat for sensitive plant species. Impacts to sensitive plant species would be less than
significant.

The sensitive animal species in the project area include: big free-tailed bat (Nyctinomops
macrotis), coastal California gnatcatcher (Polioptila californica californica), western mastiff bat
(Eumops perotis californicus), and western yellow bat (Lasiurus xanthinus). All of the sensitive
animal species within the project area are listed as CDFW species of special concern (CDFW,
2011). None of the species have state or federal listing status, except the coastal California
gnatcatcher is federally listed as threatened (CDFW, 2011). No sightings of sensitive species
have been reported on the project site. Suitable habitat for the big free-tailed bat and the western
mastiff bat is not present on-site, as the big free-tailed bat prefers arid, highrelief landscapes and
the western mastiff bat typically roosts in crevices in vertical cliffs, high buildings, trees, and
tunnels (Bolster, 1998 and CDFW, 1995). However, the western yellow bat is believed to be
expanding its range with the increased usage of ornamental palms in landscaping (Bolster, 1998).
To ensure that roosting habitat for western yellow bats would not be disturbed during
construction of the proposed project, Mitigation Measure BIO-2 would be required. While
sensitive bird species are not known to be present on-site, Mitigation Measure BIO-1 would
further ensure that impacts would be less than significant. With the implementation of Mitigation
Measures BIO-1 and BIO-2, impacts to sensitive animal species would be less than significant.

Furthermore, the site is not located within a known migration corridor or native wildlife nursery.
The project site is currently developed with a mobile home park and the vacant portions of the
site are highly disturbed. Due to the urban nature of the site, little local movement is expected to
occur through the project site except for nesting or foraging birds and small reptile and mammal

                              City of Pomona Planning Division
                      Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 12 of 15

(rodent) species. Because there are some trees and shrubs on-site that could provide habitat for
nesting birds, Mitigation Measure BIO-1 would be required. With the implementation of
Mitigation Measure BIO-1, impacts to nesting birds would be less than significant.

The following are the recommended mitigation measures that have accepted as conditions of
approval:

       BIO-1 Nesting Birds: If vegetation clearing, demolition, or other project construction is
       to be initiated during the bird breeding season (February 1 through August 31), pre-
       construction/grading surveys shall be conducted by a qualified biologist. Surveys shall be
       conducted no more than three days prior to the initiation of clearance/construction work.
       If a special-status species is located during the survey, consultation with the local CDFG
       representative shall occur to determine what avoidance actions may be taken. If any
       active non-raptor bird nests are found, the tree(s) containing the nest(s) shall be kept in
       place until the nest becomes inactive (vacated). If any active raptor bird nests are found,
       the tree(s) containing the nest(s) shall be kept in place until the nest becomes inactive
       (vacated). If any active raptor bird nests are found, the tree(s) containing the nest(s) shall
       be kept in place until the nest becomes inactive (vacated). To the extent determined
       necessary by the qualified biologist, limits of construction shall be established around
       the trees containing any active nests. The limits of construction to avoid a nest shall be
       established in the field with flagging and stakes or construction fencing. Encroachment
       into buffers around active nests must be conducted at the discretion of a qualified
       biologist. Construction personnel shall be instructed on the sensitivity of the area by a
       qualified biologist hired by the project proponent and endorsed by the City of Pomona's
       Planning Department. The applicant shall record the results of the recommended
       protective measures described above to document compliance with applicable State and
       federal laws pertaining to the protection of nesting birds.

       BIO-2 Visual Inspection for Bats: Prior to demolition or construction activities, a
       qualified biologist shall conduct a survey of palm trees on the project site for western
       yellow bats. If bat species are identified as roosting in areas that will be impacted, prior to
       construction, the applicant shall prepare a plan to exclude bat species from impact area.
       If bats cannot be excluded from bat roosts, work activities will be avoided within 100 feet
       of active maternity roosts until bat pups have been weaned and are deemed independent
       by a qualified biologist. CDFW will be contacted for additional guidance if roosting bats
       are observed within the project area during construction.

Cultural Resources

There are no notable geologic features on-site. A portion of the project site is currently
developed and the vacant portions were previously developed with residences. Due to existing
and recent development on the project site, unique archaeological or paleontological resources
are not anticipated. In addition, the project site is predominantly flat and would not require
substantial grading or excavation that would disturb subsurface materials. Nevertheless, project
construction has the potential to disturb undiscovered resources during grading. This is a

                             City of Pomona Planning Division
                     Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 13 of 15

potentially significant impact unless mitigation is incorporated. Impacts would be less than
significant after implementation of Mitigation Measure CR-1.

The following is the recommended mitigation measure that has been accepted as a condition of
approval:

       CR-1 Archaeological Assessment and Remediation: If unanticipated archaeological or
       paleontological resource remains are encountered during construction activities (any
       permitted action requiring physical digging or grading of a project area using mechanical
       equipment or hand tools, including core sampling, soil borings, work required for placing
       caissons or footings, planting trees, disking, grubbing, trenching and installation of poles,
       underground electrical systems, sewers, water mains, or other utilities, or geological/
       geotechnical testing) work shall cease until the nature, extent, and possible significance
       of any cultural remains can be assessed and, if found to be significant pursuant to Section
       15064.5 of the California Code of Regulations (CEQA Guidelines), remediated. Such
       assessment and remediation shall be implemented by the City through consultation with a
       qualified cultural resources professional prior to recommencement with onsite
       construction/grading activities. If remediation is necessary, possible techniques include
       removal, documentation, curation, or avoidance of the resource, depending upon the
       nature of the find. Cultural resource remains may include artifacts, shell, bone, features,
       foundations, trash pits and privies, etc.

Geology and Soils

Settlement and expansive soils are identified as potential hazards within the City (Pomona
General Plan, 1976). Soils in the project area consist of unconsolidated alluvium (medium grain),
which could be susceptible to soil instability issues. Although subsidence generally occurs
slowly enough that its effects are not dangerous to inhabitants, it can cause substantial building
damage over time. In addition, the presence of expansive soils would require proper engineering
controls to ensure the safety of structures and inhabitants. The site-specific stability of
underlying soils is unknown. Should unstable soils exist, proper engineering controls would need
to be implemented to ensure the safety of structures and inhabitants. Impacts to soil stability
would be potentially significant, but mitigable. Implementation of Mitigation Measure GEO-1
would be required to reduce impacts to a less than significant level.

The following is the recommended mitigation measure that has been accepted as a condition of
approval:

       GEO-1 Geotechnical Study and Hazard Minimization: Prior to site development, a
       geotechnical study shall be prepared by a registered civil or geotechnical engineer and
       reviewed by the City. This report shall include an analysis of the subsidence, settlement,
       and expansive potential of the underlying materials. If the proposed project is confirmed
       to be in an area prone to subsidence, settlement, or expansive soils, appropriate
       techniques to minimize hazards shall be prescribed and implemented. Suitable measures
       to reduce ground failure impacts could include, but are not limited to, the following:

                             City of Pomona Planning Division
                     Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 14 of 15


               Design of foundations by a structural engineer to address any identified
               geotechnical hazards;
               Removal or treatment of expansive soils;
               In-situ densification of soils;
               Replacement or recompaction of soils, or other alterations to the ground
               characteristics.

PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS

A copy of the public hearing notice was published on December 23, 2013 in the Inland Valley
Daily Bulletin and was sent to the owners and occupants of properties within a 400-foot radius
of the subject site on December 23, 2013 (Attachment 9). As of the date of this staff report,
staff has not received any correspondence either supporting or opposing the proposed
project. Additionally, the Initial Study and Negative Declaration were made available for the
required 20-day public review period which began on December 24, 2013 and concluded on
January 12, 2014. Staff received a comment from the Los Angeles County Public Works
Department requesting that Section 9 (Hydrology and Water Quality), page 37, item g, h, i
should be revised to state the project is located within the FEMA flood zone. The Initial Study/
Mitigated Negative Declaration was revised to address this issue and is included within the
10).
final draft (Attachment

CONCLUSION

The proposed project is consistent with the objectives contained in the City's General Plan and
meets or exceeds the minimum development standards of the Draft Corridors Specific Plan. With
the recommended conditions of approval, the proposed development will be compatible with
adjacent land uses and will not result in any negative impacts to the surrounding neighborhood.
Further, the project has been designed in a manner that will enhance the aesthetics of the site and
complement the existing character of the surrounding area.

RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Division recommends that the Planning Commission adopt the
attached Resolutions (Attachments 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) approving Conditional Use Permit
(CUP 13-008), Variance (VAR 13-001), Tentative Parcel Map (TPM 13-001), Change of Zone
(CZ 13-001) and a General Plan Amendment (GPA 13-002), subject to conditions.




                             City of Pomona Planning Division
                     Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
CUP 13-008, VAR 13-001, TPM 13-001, CZ 13-001 & GPA 13-002
934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 15 of 15

Respectfully Submitted:                                          Prepared by:



                                                                 __________________________
Brad Johnson                                                     Leonard Bechet
Planning Manager                                                 Assistant Planner



PC ATTACHMENTS:

1)       Draft PC Resolution for CUP 13-008
2)       Draft PC Resolution for VAR 13-001
3)       Draft PC Resolution for TPM 13-001
4)       Draft PC Resolution for CZ 13-001
5)       Draft PC Resolution for GPA 13-002
6)       Location Map and Aerial Photograph of Project Site
7)       Project Plans (8-1/2" x 11") reductions
8)       Colored Elevations
9)       Public Hearing Notice and 400' Radius Map
10)      Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration
11)      Site photographs Submitted by the Applicant, dated April 8, 2013
12)      Letter and Materials Submitted by the Applicant, dated January 22, 2014
13)      Parking Analysis, Submitted by the Applicant
14)      Full-Sized Plans (Separate Cover)



I:\Economic Development\Planning\Master Planning\PLANNING COMMISSION\Staff Reports\Conditional Use Permit\942 W. Holt Ave.
(CUP 13-008).doc




                                  City of Pomona Planning Division
                          Planning Commission Meeting of January 29, 2014
          ATTACHMENT 1
DRAFT PC RESOLUTION FOR CUP 13-008
                                    PC RESOLUTION NO. 14-

       A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
       POMONA, CALIFORNIA APPROVING CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP
       13-008) FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A 62 UNIT RESIDENTIAL
       DEVELOPMENT ON A 108,729 SQUARE FOOT (2.49 ACRE) LOT ON
       PROPERTY LOCATED AT 934-942 W. HOLT AVENUE.

       WHEREAS, the applicant, Related California, has filed an application for Conditional Use
Permit (CUP 13-008) for the development of a 62 unit residential development, which includes
affordable and supportive housing, on a 108,729 square foot (2.49 acre) lot on a property located at
934-942 W. Holt Avenue;

       WHEREAS, the 62-unit residential development will provide low-income supportive
housing for families and individuals with a disability, a mental illness or a person identified as part
of a Special Needs Population as defined by the State Mental Health Services Act (MHSA);

       WHEREAS, the subject site is currently zoned C-IND (Commercial Industrial), and
designated "Industrial" by the City's General Plan;

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Change of Zone (CZ 13-001) to
change the zoning designation from C-IND (Commercial Industrial) to R-4 (High Density Multiple
Family);

        WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted General Plan Amendment (GPA 13-
002) to change the Land Use designation from Industrial to High Density Residential;

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Variance (VAR 13-003) to vary from
development standards for a property in the R-4 zone;

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Tentative Parcel Map (TPM 13-001)
to consolidate three lots into one lot;

       WHEREAS, the subject property is located within a segment of Holt Avenue that is part of
the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan;

        WHEREAS, the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan has not been officially adopted
however, the subject project is designed to comply with the Specific Plan in anticipation of its
adoption by the City Council.
        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City of Pomona has, after giving notice
thereof as required by law held a public hearing on January 29, 2014, concerning the requested
Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-008); and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has carefully considered all pertinent testimony and
the staff report offered in the case as presented at the public hearing.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 2 of 20

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Planning Commission of the
City of Pomona, California:

        SECTION 1. The Planning Commission exercising independent judgment finds that the
project will not have an adverse effect on the environment. Pursuant to the Guidelines for
Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) found in the California Public
Resources Code, an Initial Study was prepared to assess the potential effects of this project on the
environment and found that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
environment, the effects will not be significant because mitigation measures added to the project will
reduce these effects to levels less than significant. Therefore, a Mitigated Negative Declaration of
Environmental Impacts with mandatory findings of significance and mitigations has been prepared
for the project. The Planning Commission hereby adopts said Mitigated Negative Declaration,
including the Mitigation Measures that have been incorporated as Conditions of Approval in this
Resolution.

        SECTION 2. If any part, provision, or section of this resolution is determined by a court or
other legal authority with jurisdiction over the subject matter of this resolution to be unenforceable
or invalid, the remainder of the entirety of this resolution shall not be affected and shall continue in
full force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this resolution are severable.

       SECTION 3. In accordance with Section .580.B of the Zoning Ordinance, the Planning
Commission must make findings in order to approve Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-008). Based
on consideration of the whole record before it, including but not limited to, the staff report, public
testimony received at the public hearing on this matter, and evidence made part of the public record,
the Planning Commission hereby finds as follows:

1.     That the proposed use at the particular location will contribute to the general well being of
       the neighborhood or community.

       The proposed project will contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and
       community, in that the proposed use is similar to the surrounding residential uses and will
       work to redevelop an underutilized property. The neighboring residential uses to the north
       and south are characterized by low to medium density multiple-family development. The
       project will be a positive addition to the surrounding residential neighborhood and allow Tri-
       City Mental Health to continue providing services, and meeting the social needs of the
       community.

2.     That such use will, under the circumstances of the particular case, not be detrimental to the
       health, safety, peace, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity or
       detrimental to the use, valuation or enjoyment of property or improvements in the vicinity.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 3 of 20

      The project will not be detrimental to the health, safety, peace, or general welfare of persons
      residing or working in the vicinity since the project is in full conformance with the
      development standards and use requirements of the Draft Pomona Corridor Specific Plan.
      Based on the proposed project, it is not anticipated that the configuration of the site or
      activities associated with the use will generate noise or other impacts that are associated with
      a typical residential use that will be detrimental. The project will not be detrimental to the
      use, valuation, and enjoyment of property and improvements in the vicinity since the subject
      site is located within a commercial/residential area with uses compatible to those proposed.

3.    That the site for the proposed use is of adequate topography, size, and shape to
      accommodate said use, as well as all yards, spaces, walls, fences, parking, loading,
      landscaping, and any other features necessary to allow said use in the neighborhood.

      The site is physically suitable for the type of development due to its large size (2.49 acres),
      regular shape, and relatively flat topography that allows for the accommodation of the
      proposed buildings and the required open space, driveways, walkways, and yards needed to
      serve the proposed use. Utility infrastructure exists to serve the Project site. As the Project
      site is within an urban area served by existing utility providers, the site is physically suitable
      for the type of development proposed.

4.    The site abuts streets and highways adequate in width and improvements to carry traffic
      generations by the proposed use.

      The traffic generated by the proposed use will not exceed the capacity of the existing street
      and right-of-way from which the subject site will take ingress/egress. Holt Avenue, which is
      of appropriate width and has improvements to handle any additional traffic generated by the
      proposed use.

5.    That granting of such conditional use permit will not adversely affect the General Plan of
      the City and conforms to the provisions of the zoning ordinance.

      The existing General Plan designation of the subject site is Industrial. With the conditions of
      approval, the proposed use will positively affect the general welfare of the community. It
      will also improve the aesthetics of the project site and of the immediate area. Furthermore,
      the project will develop a site that is currently underutilized into an economically viable and
      aesthetically pleasing development that will provide housing and assistance to individuals
      with disabilities or mental illnesses, which is consistent with the following policies of the
      General Plan:

          "It is the policy of the City of Pomona to encourage, with all means possible, the
          economic development and redevelopment of Pomona by the private sector."
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 4 of 20

           "It is the policy of the City of Pomona to support the efforts and the work of groups to
           guarantee equal opportunity in obtaining housing."

           "It is the policy of the City to encourage the construction of new low-density
           developments and to be receptive to medium or higher density residential uses if
           properly located."

       Staff has evaluated the proposed site design and has determined that the proposed
       development complies with the development standards of the Downtown Gateway Segment
       of the proposed Draft Corridor Specific Plan. Therefore, the granting of the Conditional Use
       Permit will not adversely affect the intent and purpose of the Specific Plan. Furthermore, the
       proposed project is consistent with and helps achieve the following strategies and visions of
       the Downtown Gateway Segment:

           Encourage the gradual transition of these segments to more pedestrian-oriented and
           distinctive building types and site treatments.

           Encourage multifamily development to mix compatibly with commercial, office and
           lodging neighbors.

           Add entitlements to allow infill residential uses throughout the Holt Avenue segment.

        SECTION 4. Based upon the above findings, the Planning Commission hereby approves
Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-008) subject to compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances
of the City as well as the addition of the following conditions, violations of which (or failure to
complete any of which) shall constitute grounds for revocation of the conditional use permit or any
portion thereof:

PLANNING DIVISION

General Conditions

1.     The subject property shall be developed and/or used in a manner consistent with the project
       plans reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission on January 29, 2014, and as
       illustrated in the stamped approved plans dated January 29, 2014. Any major modifications
       to the approved project plans shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission
       as part of a modification to the approved plans. Any minor modifications that do not affect
       the overall intent of the approved project, may be reviewed and approved by the Planning
       Manager.

2.     This approval shall lapse and become void if construction has not commenced under a valid
       building permit, within two (2) years from the date of this approval January 29, 2016), in
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 5 of 20

      accordance with Pomona Zoning Ordinance section .580.I. The Planning Commission may
      extend this period for one (1) year upon receipt of an application for a Time Extension
      request submitted by the applicant at least thirty days before the expiration date of this
      approval.

3.    The applicant shall include all approved resolutions related to the project which shall be placed
      on the title sheet of construction plans prior to plan check submittal.

4.    The project is subject to a twenty (20) day appeal period. Written appeals may be filed with
      the City Clerk within twenty (20) days by one or more City Council members, the applicant,
      or any person owning property within four hundred feet of the exterior boundary of the
      applicant's property. The appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within twenty days from
      the date of action by the Planning Commission.

5.    The applicant shall indemnify, protect, defend, and hold harmless, the City, and/or any of its
      officials, officers, employees, agents, departments, agencies, and instrumentalities thereof,
      from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs of mandamus, and other actions and
      proceedings (whether legal, equitable, declaratory, administrative or adjudicatory in nature),
      and alternative dispute resolutions procedures (including, but not limited to arbitrations,
      mediations, and other such procedures), (collectively "Actions"), brought against the City,
      and/or any of its officials, officers, employees, agents, departments, agencies, and
      instrumentalities thereof, that challenge, attack, or seek to modify, set aside, void, or annul,
      the any action of, or any permit or approval issued by, the City and/or any of its officials,
      officers, employees, agents, departments, agencies, and instrumentalities thereof (including
      actions approved by the voters of the City), for or concerning the project, whether such
      Actions are brought under the California Environmental Quality Act, the Planning and
      Zoning Law, the Subdivisions Map Act, Code of Civil Procedure Section 1085 or 1094.5, or
      any other state, federal, or local statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, or any decision of a
      court of competent jurisdiction. It is expressly agreed that the City shall have the right to
      approve, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the
      City's defense, and that applicant shall reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly
      and necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. City shall promptly notify
      the applicant of any Action brought and City shall cooperate with applicant in the defense of
      the Action.

6.    In case of violation of any of the conditions of approval or City law, the property owner and
      tenant will be issued a Notice of Correction. If said violation is not remedied within a
      reasonable period of time and/or a subsequent violations of the conditions of approval and/or
      City law occurs within ninety days of any Notice of Correction, the property owner shall be
      held responsible to reimburse the City for all staff time directly attributable to enforcement
      of the conditions of approval and/or City law, including, but not limited to, revocation of the
      herein conditional use permit.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 6 of 20


7.    Prior to the issuance of building permits, landscape and irrigation plans shall be prepared by
      a licensed landscape architect and presented to the Planning Division for review and
      approval. Landscaping to include a variation of trees, shrubs, vines and ground covers, shall
      be installed and permanently maintained in all common areas of the project site, and shall be
      in substantial conformance to the conceptual landscaping plan submitted as part of the
      Conditional Use Permit process. The plans shall conform to the State Model Water Efficient
      Landscape Ordinance per AB 1881 and landscape requirements contained in Section .503-J of
      the Pomona Zoning Ordinance. A landscaping maintenance bond shall be required and held for
      a period of one year to ensure the project's compliance with the approved landscaping.
      Amount shall be determined by the Planning Manager.

8.    Prior to issuance of building permits, the applicant shall submit, concurrently with the Plan
      Check process, and obtain the approval from the Planning Division of a lighting plan
      (photometric) demonstrating a minimum one foot-candle of illumination of parking,
      driveway, walkways, and common areas. The lighting plan shall include a site plan showing
      the locations of ground-mounted and building-mounted light fixtures, design and
      photometric information on fixtures, and shielding to orient light away from adjacent
      properties and buildings.

9.    Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, in order to ensure future owners are made
      aware of conditions of approval, the applicant shall record this resolution with the Los
      Angeles County Recorder's office and forward copies to the City of Pomona Planning
      Division.

10.   Prior to issuance of building permits the applicant shall submit a fully executed copy,
      administered by California Housing Finance Agency (CalHFA), to the City of Pomona
      Planning Division.

11.   The applicant shall conform to Section .5809-24 of the Pomona Zoning Ordinance pertaining
      to public art requirements for private development by complying with one of the following
      two options:

      a) Placement of an approved Public Art on the Project site.

         i) The Applicant may decide to place an approved Public Art on a private development
            site. The Public Art, and all eligible expenditures associated with installation of the
            Public Art (as described in the Manual), shall be in an amount equal to or in excess
            of the Public Art Allocation.

         ii) A Final Design Plan of the Public Art to be installed on Project site shall be approved
             by the Commission before issuance of a building or grading permit for the Project.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 7 of 20


         iii) The Public Art shall be installed on the Project site before issuance of a Certificate of
              Occupancy, including any temporary Certificate of Occupancy, for the Project. In
              cases where the Public Art cannot be installed on the Project site before issuance of a
              Certificate of Occupancy, the Applicant may post a cash bond to assure installation
              of the Public Art. The cash bond shall be in an amount equal to the Public Art
              Allocation or an amount based on any remaining, unexpended artwork budget as
              determined by the Community Development Director. The bond shall not be
              released until the Public Art has been completed and installed on the Project site in
              accordance with the approved Final Design Plan.

      b) Payment of an In-lieu Contribution.

         i) Rather than place an approved Public Art on the Project site, the Applicant may
            choose to pay an In-lieu Contribution. The In-lieu Contribution shall be submitted
            to the City and deposited into the Public Art Fund before issuance of any building
            or grading permit for the Project.

         ii) Use of In-lieu Contributions shall comply with the following:

             (1) In-lieu Contributions shall be used for the acquisition and installation of
                 Public Art on public or private property in the City, except that up to 1/3 of
                 the In-lieu Contribution may be used for maintenance of the proposed Public
                 Art or an existing Public Art that is listed on the City's registry of Public Art.

             (2) In-lieu Contributions may be aggregated with other funds contained in the
                 Public Art Fund for the purpose of providing a single qualifying Public Art
                 project.

12.   The property owner shall remove any graffiti on the project site within 24 hours of
      discovery. The paint utilized to cover the graffiti must substantially match the existing
      structure. In the event that the paint finish of the abated area is noticeably distinguishable
      from the rest of the structure, the property owner shall paint additional portions of the
      building to minimize the disparity, subject to the approval of the Planning Manager.

13.   The property owner shall provide regular maintenance and cleaning of all exterior walkways,
      patios, canopies, sidewalks, and landscaped parkways in compliance with Pomona City Code
      62-351.

14.   There shall be no activity conducted on the subject site that exceeds the noise and vibration
      parameters of Pomona City Code Section 18-301, et seq., and City Council Ordinance No.
      3939 at any time, or such other ordinance enacted related to noise and vibration.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 8 of 20


15.   No temporary signs relating to any activity on the premise shall be placed or allowed to
      remain within landscape areas, public right-of-way areas adjacent to the subject site (e.g.
      telephone poles, traffic signs, and city trees) or other portions on the exterior of the building.
      The only temporary signs allowed shall be properly permitted banner signs by permit per the
      City's sign ordinance. Signs placed in any window of the premises shall comply with the
      City's sign ordinance, and all other conditions under this Conditional use Permit.

16.   The construction area shall be kept clean at all times prior to, during, and after construction.

17.   Prior to the issuance of building permits, cut-sheets for street furniture and interior courtyard
      furniture shall be incorporated into the building plan check submittal, subject to Planning
      Manager review and approval.

18.   Prior to the issuance of building permits, plans shall be revised to indicate location of
      decorative bicycle racks, number and location shall be subject to review and approval of the
      Planning Manager.

19.   The majority of the hardscape within the interior community courtyard, shall be provided
      with decorative elements to include, but not limited to, patterned stained/colored concrete,
      stamped concrete, stone, concrete overlays or other similar treatment.

20.   Prior to the issuance of building permits, Planning Manager approval, during the Plan Check
      process, shall be obtained for the design and materials of the hardscape decorative paving to
      be installed within the interior community courtyard.

21.   The installation of fences and walls that were not contemplated as part of this permit will
      require the submittal of a "Fence and Wall Permit" for review and approval by the Planning
      Division.

22.   Prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy, the applicant shall submit "House Rules"
      to address resident conduct, care and use of units and care and use of common areas, subject
      to Planning Manager review and approval. Changes to the "House Rules" shall be submitted to
      the Planning Manager for review. Any minor modifications that do not affect the overall intent
      of the approved "House Rules", may be reviewed and approved by the Planning Manager.

23.   The occupancy for each unit shall be limited to the following:

            One-Bedroom Unit:         3 persons
            Two-Bedroom Unit:         5 persons
            Three-Bedroom Unit:       7 persons
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 9 of 20

       Overnight visitor stay must comply with the standards outlined in the "House Rules".

24.   The project shall be provided with and maintain an organization, such as Tri-City Mental Health,
      to provide specialized services to the Project tenants for the life of the project as required by
      Section 7345(i) and 7346(c) of the Multifamily Housing Program (MHP) Regulations.

25.   Tenants for the 21 units of the project set aside for Special Needs Population as defined by the
      State Mental Health Services Act (MHSA) shall be required to be clients of Tri-City Mental
      Health or the applicable organization providing services to the Project.

26.   The applicant shall be require to notify the Planning Division in writing at any time when the
      organization providing services to the residents changes.

27.   If vegetation clearing, demolition, or other project construction is to be initiated during the
      bird breeding season (February 1 through August 31), pre-construction/grading surveys shall
      be conducted by a qualified biologist. Surveys shall be conducted no more than three days
      prior to the initiation of clearance/construction work. If a special-status species is located
      during the survey, consultation with the local CDFG representative shall occur to determine
      what avoidance actions may be taken. If any active non-raptor bird nests are found, the
      tree(s) containing the nest(s) shall be kept in place until the nest becomes inactive (vacated).
      If any active raptor bird nests are found, the tree(s) containing the nest(s) shall be kept in
      place until the nest becomes inactive (vacated). If any active raptor bird nests are found, the
      tree(s) containing the nest(s) shall be kept in place until the nest becomes inactive (vacated).
      To the extent determined necessary by the qualified biologist, limits of construction shall be
      established around the trees containing any active nests. The limits of construction to avoid a
      nest shall be established in the field with flagging and stakes or construction fencing.
      Encroachment into buffers around active nests must be conducted at the discretion of a
      qualified biologist. Construction personnel shall be instructed on the sensitivity of the area
      by a qualified biologist hired by the project proponent and endorsed by the City of Pomona's
      Planning Department. The applicant shall record the results of the recommended protective
      measures described above to document compliance with applicable State and federal laws
      pertaining to the protection of nesting birds.

28.   Prior to demolition or construction activities, a qualified biologist shall conduct a survey of
      palm trees on the project site for western yellow bats. If bat species are identified as roosting
      in areas that will be impacted, prior to construction, the applicant shall prepare a plan to
      exclude bat species from impact area. If bats cannot be excluded from bat roosts, work
      activities will be avoided within 100 feet of active maternity roosts until bat pups have been
      weaned and are deemed independent by a qualified biologist. CDFW will be contacted for
      additional guidance if roosting bats are observed within the project area during construction.

29.   If unanticipated archaeological or paleontological resource remains are encountered during
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 10 of 20

      construction activities (any permitted action requiring physical digging or grading of a
      project area using mechanical equipment or hand tools, including core sampling, soil
      borings, work required for placing caissons or footings, planting trees, disking, grubbing,
      trenching and installation of poles, underground electrical systems, sewers, water mains, or
      other utilities, or geological/ geotechnical testing) work shall cease until the nature, extent,
      and possible significance of any cultural remains can be assessed and, if found to be
      significant pursuant to Section 15064.5 of the California Code of Regulations (CEQA
      Guidelines), remediated. Such assessment and remediation shall be implemented by the City
      through consultation with a qualified cultural resources professional prior to
      recommencement with onsite construction/grading activities. If remediation is necessary,
      possible techniques include removal, documentation, curation, or avoidance of the resource,
      depending upon the nature of the find. Cultural resource remains may include artifacts, shell,
      bone, features, foundations, trash pits and privies, etc.

30.   Prior to site development, a geotechnical study shall be prepared by a registered civil or
      geotechnical engineer and reviewed by the City. This report shall include an analysis of the
      subsidence, settlement, and expansive potential of the underlying materials. If the proposed
      project is confirmed to be in an area prone to subsidence, settlement, or expansive soils,
      appropriate techniques to minimize hazards shall be prescribed and implemented. Suitable
      measures to reduce ground failure impacts could include, but are not limited to, the
      following:

             Design of foundations by a structural engineer to address any identified geotechnical
             hazards;
             Removal or treatment of expansive soils;
             In-situ densification of soils;
             Replacement or recompaction of soils, or other alterations to the ground
             characteristics.

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPT. ­ BUILDING AND SAFETY DIVISION

31.   The design must be reviewed and stamped by an architect licensed in the State of California
      ­ (Business and Professions code Sections 5537, 5538 and 6737.1).

32.   A building permit shall be obtained for the proposed construction and site development. The
      design of the building shall comply the 2010 California Building Code, Chapters 5, 6, 7, 9,
      10, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 25 for non-constructional provisions and Chapter 16, 17, 18, 19, 21,
      22 and 23 for structural provisions, or such other building code applicable at the time of
      issuance of permits by the City of Pomona Building and Safety Division.

33.   All proposed electrical work shall comply with the provisions of the 2010 California
      Electrical Code, and all other laws, ordinances, and resolutions governing electrical as
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 11 of 20

      adopted by the City of Pomona at the time of installation of improvements.

34.   All proposed electrical work shall comply with the provisions of the 2010 California
      Electrical Code, and all other laws, ordinances, and resolutions governing Energy
      conservation as adopted by the City of Pomona.

35.   All proposed mechanical work shall comply with the provisions of the 2010 California
      Mechanical Code, and all other laws, ordinances, and resolutions governing mechanical as
      adopted by the City of Pomona at the time of installation of improvements.

36.   All proposed plumbing work shall comply with the provisions of the 2010 California
      Plumbing Code, and all other laws, ordinances, and resolutions governing plumbing as
      adopted by the City of Pomona at the time of installation of improvements.

37.   All grading shall comply with the provisions of the 2010 California Building Code,
      Appendix J, and all other laws, ordinances, and resolutions governing grading as adopted by
      the City of Pomona at the time of grading. The applicant shall obtain a grading permit from
      the Building & Safety Division prior to commencing any grading or site excavation.

38.   Geotechnical and/or soils reports required in order to obtain a grading permit shall be
      submitted to the Building Official for review and approval prior to issuance of a grading
      permit. All grading shall be in conformance with the recommendations of the
      geotechnical/soils reports as approved by the City of Pomona.

39.   The proposed project shall comply with the 2010 California Green Building Standards Code
      and all other relevant laws, ordinances, and resolutions governing sustainable design as
      adopted by the City of Pomona.

FIRE DEPARTMENT

40.   The applicant shall provide fire hydrants to the satisfaction of the Fire Department. Final
      location and number of hydrants to be determined during the Plan Check Process.

41.   The applicant shall submit plans to receive approval of access during the Plan Check Process.

42.   The applicant shall provide Fire Department or City approved street signs and building
      access numbers prior to occupancy.

43.   The applicant shall submit fire flow information during the Plan Check Process.

CODE COMPLIANCE DIVISION
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 12 of 20

44.   The on-site property manager shall be Crime Free Multi-Housing (CFMH) certified and lease
      agreements shall be consistent with CFMH requirements.

45.   The on-site property manager shall hold a minimum of two neighborhood watch meetings
      each year on the property with members of the City's Crime Prevention Unit in attendance.

PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT

Parcel Map requirements:

46.   The tentative parcel map shall be recorded and developed as one parcel map. Financial
      security must be provided for all public improvements prior to the map recordation.

47.   Tentative Parcel Map shall conform to the requirements of the Subdivision Map Act and to
      City Ordinance No. 2779.

48.   The final parcel map shall clearly identify the recording instrument for the Holt Avenue
      roadway and public utility dedication and depict the property blue border line along the
      southerly limit of Holt Avenue right-of-way; if this information is not available, said public
      right-of-way shall be dedicated on the proposed parcel map and the blue border line shall
      coincide with Holt Avenue centerline.

49.   All existing and proposed easements for water/storm drain/sewer lines, ingress/egress and
      traveled ways must be clearly shown on the map. Prior to recordation, the applicant shall
      demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City Engineer that the proposed subdivision will not
      unreasonable interfere with the use of any easement holder of property. Any omission or
      misrepresentation of these documents may require the parcel map to be resubmitted for
      further consideration.

      Provide copies of all recorded instruments referenced in the easements section pertaining to
      the project's legal description.
50.   Prior to the parcel map approval the Title Company must submit a Final Subdivision
      Guarantee to the Engineering Department.

51.   All subdivisions must have centerline ties and survey property monuments set by a licensed
      Professional Civil Engineer or Land Surveyor as shown on the recorded subdivision. All
      final monuments shall be set by the Engineer of record within one year of the parcel map
      recordation; adequate monumentation bond is required prior to the final parcel map
      recordation.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 13 of 20

52.   Prior to the issuance of the grading permit, the parcel map shall be recorded to reflect the
      new lot lines. Mylar copies of the map with the Los Angeles County Recorder's Office
      official stamp must be submitted to the Engineering Department.

Improvement plans requirements

53.   Applicant/Developer shall submit the grading, drainage and erosion control plans for
      review and approval by the Public Works, Planning and Building and Safety Departments.
          a. The scale used for the plans needs to be large enough (1"=10' is preferred) to clearly
             show all the details.
          b. One-foot topographic contours of the site must extend a minimum of 15 feet beyond
             the boundary lines.
          c. The plans shall include sufficient cross sections to show any block wall locations,
             parkway width and any permanent facilities that might require maintenance and
             access easements.
          d. Drainage configurations on the existing adjacent properties shall not be altered,
             redirected or modified in any way.
          e. The stormwater overflows generated by the proposed project area shall be primarily
             directed to the existing storm drain system in Holt Avenue via an underground lateral
             connection, and secondarily directed to the street gutter by using parkway drains.

54.   Prior to issuance of the grading permit the Applicant/Developer shall submit written
      notifications of adjacent property owners regarding the direct and indirect impact associated
      with the proposed construction.

55.   Prior to the issuance of the grading permit the applicant/developer shall provide non-
      interference letters from any applicable utility agencies for any utility easements located
      within the areas subject to grading activities. All such documents shall be subject to review
      and approval by the City Engineer.

56.   Prior to issuance of the grading permit the Applicant/Developer shall submit a soils and
      geologic report to address the soil's stability and geological conditions of the site.
57.   Applicant/Developer shall submit public street improvement plans to include the following:
          a. Holt Avenue re-pavement over its entire width, along the property frontage.
          b. Remove all four existing driveway approaches and replace them with new sidewalk;
              construct the project's new driveway apron to comply with city standards.
          c. ADA Compliant curb ramps.
          d. New sidewalk to replace existing damaged, cracked, uplifted sections.
          e. Parkway drains.
          f. Sidewalk landscaping: add one missing tree (Platanus x Acerifolia Columbia or
              London Plane Tree, Columbia cultivar) to match existing, in the vacant tree well.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 14 of 20

         g. Street lights: five (5) twin head/arm post-top intermediate-scale street lights, located
            within the sidewalk planter strip, with a spacing of approximately 80 feet on center.
            Light sources should be located 16-18 feet above finished grade.
         h. Median landscaping/street lighting: Applicant/Developer is responsible for paying
            $335,016 representing the in lieu fees for the required median landscaping and street
            lighting improvements in compliance with the Pomona Corridor Specific Plan. This
            requirement shall be complied with if the City's General Plan Update and Corridors
            Specific Plan are adopted prior to the approval of the proposed development. Said
            City Plans are tentatively scheduled to be submitted for the Pomona City Council's
            approval on February 3, 2014.
         i. Existing utilities (sewer, water and storm drain), including laterals.
         j. Unobstructed visibility shall be ensured at the proposed Holt Avenue driveway;
         k. Note: "It is the owner's and the contractor's responsibility to repair all damage to the
            existing public improvements due to the proposed construction activities and to
            address all repairs requested by the Public Works Inspector based on the inspector's
            review of the current condition of the said public improvements".
         l. The demolition or relocation of any public improvements (street lights, signs, trees,
            vaults, catch basins, hydrants, etc) due to the proposed project construction must be
            coordinated and agreed upon by the appropriate City departments, shall be designed
            per City standards and applicable ADA requirements, and must be reviewed and
            approved by Public Works Engineering Department.

58.   Prior to approval of any improvement plans and/or grading permit issuance
      Applicant/Developer shall prepare a detailed hydrology study based on a 50-year storm
      event and a hydraulic analysis of the existing and proposed drainage conveyance capacity.
      These reports shall be submitted to the Public Works Department for review and approval.
      The Developer is responsible to comply with the approved hydrology study
      recommendations necessary to meet minimum Federal, State, County and City requirements.

59.   Applicant/Developer shall identify the existence of all City utilities that may be in conflict
      with the development and submit protection measures to the City Engineer for those City
      utilities.

60.   All improvements to the City's water system shall be installed at the Developer's expense in
      accordance with the provisions of the City of Pomona Water Code, Construction Standards
      and the Federal, State and County Public Health requirements, including payment of all
      required plan check fees, bonds, connection fees, water meter setting fees and all additional
      water facilities advance payments. Public water facilities that are existing or proposed to be
      installed on private property must be approved by the City Engineer prior to the issuance of
      the grading permit.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 15 of 20

61.   Prior to the approval of the water improvement plans Applicant/Developer shall provide
      hydraulic calculations showing the proposed demand required by the site and the demand's
      impact on the existing water system. The Applicant/Developer must to verify (based on
      fixture units) that the proposed or existing service can provide the domestic and fire water
      demand given the size, pressure, and distance of these services from the proposed buildings.
      The calculation shall include fire and domestic water demands.
      If verification of static pressure is desired, it may be obtained by requesting a fire hydrant
      flow test from the Public Works Department. The localized approximate static pressure for
      the proposed project area is 45-50 psi.

                 The proposed public water improvement plans shall include:

         a. All existing and new utilities, including existing and proposed water facilities, water
            services and water easements:
                 i. One (1) ten-inch (10") ACP water main in Holt Avenue.
                ii. There is one (1) existing 1½-inch domestic meter at 934 W. Holt Avenue and
                    one (1) existing 5/8-inch domestic meter at 942 W. Holt Avenue based on
                    current records. Identify if both existing meters are to stay in place. These
                    services require reduced pressure backflow preventers to be installed on the
                    private side of the meter.
               iii. There are several public fire hydrants within 300 feet of the proposed project
                    site.
            The existing water infrastructure must also be shown on the site plan.
         b. All existing private/public infrastructure and water facilities adjacent to and affecting
            the development property including all underground utility connections.
         c. Water Development plans are for public water improvements only; all private water
            improvements shall be addressed separately; any private onsite water improvements
            are the owner's responsibility and not the City's.
         d. The City will install meters less than or equal to 2" in size.
         e. Water/fire services may not cross property lines unless those separate properties have
            the same owner.
         f. Property address, legal description, property lines, street centerline, curb-line,
            existing and proposed utility easements, and right-of-way with dimensions.

62.   During construction the developer and/or contractor shall:
         a. Use the existing domestic water service provided that there is an existing backflow
             device in-line on the private side of the meter.
         b. Request any water main shutdowns through the Public Works Department.
         c. All newly installed water service lines shall be disinfected per City of Pomona,
             Water Division­Standard Specification for Water Facility Construction before
             connection to the existing water line.
         d. Protect existing water lines in the area.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 16 of 20


63.   All project related trench repairs in City maintained streets shall be per City Standard A-26-
      02. Following completion of all street/utility work, and prior to the issuance of the
      Certificate of Occupancy Applicant/Developer shall be required to repair all affected lanes of
      development street frontages to a condition "as good or better" as required per City Standard
      A-26-02.

64.   Prior to the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy Applicant/Developer is responsible for
      installing approved Reduced Pressure Backflow Preventers (list brand and model) for the
      following water lines to the site:
          a. Reduced principal pressure devices are required for all domestic services;
          b. Reduced principal pressure devices are required for all dedicated irrigation service
               lines to the proposed site;
          c. Double check detector assembly devices for all fire sprinkler service lines, or onsite
               mains serving solely hydrants.

65.   Prior to the approval of the water improvement plans the Applicant/Developer shall meet all
      requirements of the Los Angeles County Fire Department (LACFD). Applicant/Developer
      shall contact LACFD to determine if additional fire hydrants are needed for the proposed
      development. Any new fire hydrants must be placed at least five (5) feet from proposed
      driveways and off of parking spaces. Proof of LACFD approval is required for Site Plan
      sign-off or final water improvement plan submittal to the Public Works Department. Contact
      the LACFD for information at (909) 620-2402. To meet any LACFD requirements for fire
      flow information for the existing mains in the area, a fire hydrant test shall be requested from
      the Public Works Department.

66.   Prior to approval of project's improvement plans, the Applicant/Developer shall submit
      calculations of the expected wastewater generated by the proposed development, to properly
      size the sewer lateral(s) to serve the new site.

67.   Prior to issuance of the building permit Applicant/Developer shall submit sewer
      improvement plans for review and approval by the Public Works Department. The sewer
      plans must include the following items:
          a. The existing sewer infrastructure:
                  i. One (1) eight-inch (8") VCP main in Holt Avenue.
                 ii. Several existing sewer services according to current records.
             The existing sewer infrastructure must also be shown on the site plan.
          b. The proposed sewer mains, laterals, manholes.
          c. The sewer lateral separation distances, relative to water mains, shall comply with
             California Code of Regulations, Title 22.
          d. Construction Notes to include the following: The Contractor shall provide all
             temporary seals enclosures, forced ventilation or other devices as maybe necessary to
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 17 of 20

              prevent odor nuisance and solid objects from entering the existing sewer line during
              construction.

68.   The sewer laterals from the public main to the site are considered private and must be
      maintained by the property owners.

69.   New sewer laterals must be constructed per Standard No. B-8-61 per City of Pomona Public
      Works Department Standard Drawings August 2011 (Public Works Standards).
      Construction shall also comply with Standard No. A-26-02 per the Public Works Standards.

70.   Effective January 1, 2014, the City has adopted new service charges for water and sewer
      services. For further information on how charges are assessed, contact the City's Public
      Works Business Services Division at 909-620-2241.

71.   The final improvement plans, as shown on the Mylar, shall be provided to the City in both
      hard copy and electronic in Auto CAD v. 2004 and .pdf formats. Following construction and
      prior to acceptance of the improvements by the City, the project engineer shall provide hand
      drafted "AS BUILT" corrections on the original approved Mylars of the final constructed
      improvements to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. A corrected "AS BUILT" plan shall
      also be provided to the City on disk in Auto CAD v. 2004 and .pdf formats.

72.   Traffic: Minimum one-car queue shall be allowed beyond the sidewalk area when installing
      the traffic access gate at Holt Avenue entrance.

73.   Prior to issuance of the grading permit Applicant/Developer shall develop and obtain the
      City approval of the final Standard Urban Stormwater Mitigation Plan (SUSMP) for the
      proposed project. The SUSMP shall be prepared in accordance with the Los Angeles County
      SUSMP Manual, and must include:
          a. Site Design BMPs;
          b. Source Control BMPs;
          c. Treatment Control BMPs; and
          d. Recorded Maintenance Covenant for SUSMP.
      Post-construction Structural and/or Treatment Control BMPs, shall be designed to mitigate
      (infiltrate or harvest and use) storm water run-off from the 85th percentile 24-hour rain event
      or 0.75-inch, 24-hour rain event, whichever is greater. The results of infiltration testing shall
      be provided as part of the SUSMP submittal.

74.   The project involves soil-disturbing activities in excess of 1 acre therefore the project
      applicant shall apply for a State General Construction Permit (Order No. CAS000002) and
      submit a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan to the City.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 18 of 20

75.    Prior to issuance of the building permits applicant/developer is responsible for paying the
       project's impact fees for traffic signals and control devices, road and highway
       improvements, and public safety improvements.

76.    Property Owner is responsible for the compliance with any special annual levy assessment
       derived from the current inclusion of the project site into the City's Street Lighting and
       Landscaping Maintenance District. The due assessment levy will be adjusted based on the
       proposed subdivision. The Developer shall disclose to any future buyers that the property is
       within the City of Pomona Lighting and Landscaping District and is subject to annual special
       taxes.

77.    The plans shall be submitted on 24" x 36" sheet size with a standard City title block, and
       must correctly identify the property owner, address, legal description, property lines, street
       centerline, curb-lines, existing and proposed utilities (water, sewer, and storm drain), utility
       easements, and the public right-of-way areas with dimensions.

Public Works Improvements Permit

All work in the public right-of-way is subject to review, approval, and permitting requirements of
Public Works Department.

78.    Prior to grading permit issuance Applicant/Developer shall post surety bonds for all public
       improvements, including but not limited to: water, sewer, storm drains, street frontage
       pavement, sidewalk, drainage and parkway improvements, and driveway approaches.
79.    Permittee shall procure and maintain throughout the period of the Permit the following
       policies of insurance:
           a. Commercial General Liability;
           b. Automobile Liability;
           c. Worker's Compensation as required by the State of California;
               Note: The Commercial General Liability and the Automobile Liability policies shall
               include the City of Pomona as additional insured.

80.    Permittee shall pay fees associated with and possess the City of Pomona Business License.

81.    Changes and additions to the proposed work, including but not limited to detail plans for
       street improvement work, water plans and/or other work associated with this project and due
       to developer's or City's request shall require additional conditions to be completed by the
       applicant.

SECTION 5. The Secretary shall certify to the adoption of this Resolution and forward the
original to the City Clerk.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 19 of 20

       APPROVED AND PASSED THIS 29th DAY OF JANUARY, 2014.




                                     DENTON MOSIER
                                     PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIRPERSON
ATTEST:




BRAD JOHNSON
PLANNING COMMISSION SECRETARY


APPROVED AS TO FORM:




ANDREW JARED
ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) ss.
CITY OF POMONA     )

       AYES:
       NOES:
       ABSTAIN:
       ABSENT:

"Pursuant to Resolution No. 76-258 of the City of Pomona the time in which judicial review of this
action must be sought is governed by Sec. 1094.6 C.C.P."
PC Resolution No. 14-
CUP 13-008 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 20 of 20




I:\Economic Development\Planning\Master Planning\PLANNING COMMISSION\RESOLUTIONS\934 & 942 W. Holt Ave. (CUP 13-008) Reso.doc
          ATTACHMENT 2
DRAFT PC RESOLUTION FOR VAR 13-001
                                 PC RESOLUTION NO. 13-018


       A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
       POMONA, CALIFORNIA APPROVING VARIANCE (VAR 13-001) TO
       ALLOW THE DEVELOPMENT OF A 62-UNIT RESIDENTIAL
       DEVELOPMENT TO VARY FROM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
       ESTALISHED IN THE R-4 (HIGH DENSITY MULTIPLE FAMILY)
       ZONE ON A PROPERTY LOCATED AT 934 & 942 WEST HOLT
       AVENUE.


       WHEREAS, the applicant, Related California, has filed an application for Variance
(VAR 13-001) to vary from development standards for a property in the R-4 (High Density
Multiple Family) zone on a 108,729 square foot (2.49 acre) lot on properties located at 934 &
942 West Holt Avenue;

      WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted for Conditional Use Permit (CUP
13-008) for the development of a 62-unit residential development;

      WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted for Tentative Parcel Map (TPM
13-001) to consolidate three lots into one;

       WHEREAS, the 62-unit residential development will provide low-income supportive
housing for individuals with a disability, a mental illness or a person identified as part of a
Special Needs Population as defined by the State Mental Health Services Act (MHSA);

         WHEREAS, the project plans to utilize tax credit funds administered by the California
Tax Credit Allocation Committee (CTCAC) and a Mental Health Services Act (MHSA) loan
administered by the California Housing Finance Authority (CalHFA). The term of the loan is 55
years and one of the loan requirements is that the 62 units must be provided with income
restrictions to keep the units affordable for low-income individuals. The restriction is in place for
the entire term of the loan;

       WHEREAS, the subject site is currently zoned C-IND (Commercial Industrial), and
designated "Industrial" by the City's General Plan;

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Change of Zone (CZ 13-001) to
change the zoning designation from C-IND (Commercial Industrial) to R-4 (High Density
Multiple Family);

      WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted General Plan Amendment (GPA
13-002) to change the Land Use designation from Industrial to High Density Residential;

        WHEREAS, the subject property is located within a segment of Holt Avenue that is part
of the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan;
PC Resolution No. 14-
VAR 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 2 of 6

       WHEREAS, the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan has not been officially adopted
however, the subject project is designed to comply with the Specific Plan in anticipation of its
adoption by the City Council;

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City of Pomona has, after giving notice
thereof as required by law held a public hearing on January 29, 2014, concerning the requested
Variance (VAR 13-001); and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has carefully considered all pertinent testimony,
the recommendation of the Planning Division staff and the staff report offered in the case as
presented at said noticed public hearing.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Planning Commission of
the City of Pomona, California, as follows:

        SECTION 1. The Planning Commission exercising independent judgment finds that the
project will not have an adverse effect on the environment. Pursuant to the Guidelines for
Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) found in the California
Public Resources Code, an Initial Study was prepared to assess the potential effects of this
project on the environment and found that although the proposed project could have a significant
effect on the environment, the effects will not be significant because mitigation measures added
to the project will reduce these effects to levels less than significant. Therefore, a Mitigated
Negative Declaration of Environmental Impacts with mandatory findings of significance and
mitigations has been prepared for the project. The Planning Commission hereby adopts said
Mitigated Negative Declaration, including the Mitigation Measures that have been incorporated
as Conditions of Approval for the project.

        SECTION 2. In any part, provision, or section of this resolution is determined by a
court or other legal authority with jurisdiction over the subject matter of this resolution to be
unenforceable or invalid, the remainder of the entirety of this resolution shall not be affected and
shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this resolution are severable.

        SECTION 3. Pursuant to Section .560 of the Zoning Ordinance, the Planning
Commission must make the four (4) findings listed below in order to grant a variance. Based
upon a consideration of the whole record before it including, but not limited to, the staff report,
public testimony received at the public hearing on this matter, and evidence made part of the
public record, the Planning Commission hereby finds as follows:

1.     That there are special circumstances applicable to the property including but not limited
       to size, shape, location, topography or surroundings that deprive such property of
       privileges enjoyed by other property in the vicinity and under identical zoning
       classification.
PC Resolution No. 14-
VAR 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 3 of 6

      The project proposed under this application is consistent with the vision and goals of the
      Draft Pomona Corridor Specific Plan; however the Specific Plan and is not yet adopted
      and the project is currently subject to the development standards of the R-4 (High Density
      Multiple Family) zone. The R-4 zone is intended to provide for the establishment of
      multiple family residential developments. In order to achieve compliance with the
      Specific Plan, the applicant is requesting relief from R-4 development standards related
      to setbacks, parking and open space. Architecture and site layout are key to ensure that
      the plan area develops into an aesthetically superior development that contribute to the
      emergence of an increasingly visible and memorable visual identity.

2.    That the granting of the variance will not constitute a special privilege inconsistent with
      the limitations upon other properties in the vicinity and zone in which the property is
      situated.

      Portions of the existing project are vacant and developed with a mobile home park. The
      variance request will yield a site layout that is consistent with similar properties that front
      onto Holt Avenue with reduced yard setbacks and with adjacent residential properties
      with reduced unit sizes and parking standards. Therefore, the Planning Commission
      granting this variance request will not constitute a special privilege.

3.    That the granting of the variance will be consistent with the provisions of any Specific
      Plan, or the adopted General Plan.

      The proposed Variance request is compatible with the following policies of the
      Residential Element of the General Plan:

      "It is the policy of the City to ensure that new development shall be a positive addition to
      the City's environment and will not detract from the nature of the character of
      appropriate nearby established development because of architectural style, scale and
      location."
      "It is the policy of the City of Pomona to encourage all new development to
      respect distinctive land forms in its design."
      "It is the policy of the City of Pomona to promote the concept of attractive,
      quality residential environments that meet the individual, social, cultural and
      personal needs of the residents of that area."


4.    That the granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental or injurious to the
      surrounding properties nor to the general development pattern of the neighborhood.
PC Resolution No. 14-
VAR 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 4 of 6
       The granting of the Variance will not be materially detrimental or injurious to the
       surrounding properties nor to the general development pattern of the neighborhood in that
       the property is an underutilized lot in a zone which allows for the construction of a multi-
       family development. The site plan shows portions of the project which are located within
       the required front yard setback and provided with reduced open space sizes and parking
       standards which do not significantly differ from similar development patterns in the
       vicinity.

       SECTION 4. Based upon the above findings, the Planning Commission hereby approves
Variance (VAR 13-001) subject to compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances of the
City as well as the addition of the following conditions, violations of which (or failure to
complete any of which) shall constitute grounds for revocation of the conditional use permit or
any portion thereof:

Planning Division

General Conditions

1.     The subject property shall be developed and/or used in a manner consistent with the
       project plans reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission on January 29, 2014,
       and as illustrated in the stamped approved plans dated January 29, 2014. Any major
       modifications to the approved project plans shall be reviewed and approved by the
       Planning Commission as part of a modification to the approved plans. Any minor
       modifications that do not affect the overall intent of the approved project, may be
       reviewed and approved by the Planning Manager.

2.     This approval shall lapse and become void if construction has not commenced under a
       valid building permit, within two (2) years from the date of this approval (January 29,
       2016), in accordance with Pomona Zoning Ordinance section .580.I. The Planning
       Commission may extend this period for one (1) year upon receipt of an application for a
       Time Extension request submitted by the applicant at least thirty days before the
       expiration date of this approval.

3.     Written appeals may be filed with the City Clerk within twenty (20) days by one or more
       City Council members, the applicant, or any person owning property within four hundred
       (400) feet of the exterior boundary of the applicant's property.

4.     The applicant shall indemnify, protect, defend, release and hold harmless, the City, and/or
       any of its officials, officers, employees, agents, departments, agencies, and
       instrumentalities thereof, from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs of mandamus,
       and other actions and proceedings (whether legal, equitable, declaratory, administrative or
       adjudicatory in nature), and alternative dispute resolutions procedures (including, but not
       limited to arbitrations, mediations, and other such procedures), (collectively "Actions"),
PC Resolution No. 14-
VAR 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 5 of 6
       brought against the City, and/or any of its officials, officers, employees, agents,
       departments, agencies, and instrumentalities thereof, that challenge, attack, or seek to
       modify, set aside, void, or annul, the any action of, or any permit or approval issued by, the
       City and/or any of its officials, officers, employees, agents, departments, agencies, and
       instrumentalities thereof (including actions approved by the voters of the City), for or
       concerning the project, whether such Actions are brought under the California
       Environmental Quality Act, the Planning and Zoning Law, the Subdivisions Map Act,
       Code of Civil Procedure Section 1085 or 1094.5, or any other state, federal, or local statute,
       law, ordinance, rule, regulation, or any decision of a court of competent jurisdiction. It is
       expressly agreed that the City shall have the right to approve, which approval will not be
       unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the City's defense, and that applicant
       shall reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the
       City in the course of the defense. City shall promptly notify the applicant of any Action
       brought and City shall cooperate with applicant in the defense of the Action.

5.     The applicant shall make reductions of all approved resolutions related to the project,
       which shall be placed on the title sheet of construction plans prior to the Plan Check
       submittal.

        SECTION 5. The Secretary shall certify to the adoption of this Resolution and forward
the original to the City Clerk.


       APPROVED AND PASSED THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2014.




                                      DENTON MOSIER
                                      PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIRPERSON




ATTEST:




BRAD JOHNSON
PLANNING COMMISSION SECRETARY
PC Resolution No. 14-
VAR 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 6 of 6
APPROVED AS TO FORM:




ANDREW JARED
ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY


STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) ss.
CITY OF POMONA     )


         AYES:
         NOES:
         ABSTAIN:
         ABSENT:


"Pursuant to Resolution No. 76-258 of the City of Pomona the time in which judicial review of
this action must be sought is governed by Sec. 1094.6 C.C.P."




I:\Economic Development\Planning\Master Planning\PLANNING COMMISSION\RESOLUTIONS\934 & 942 W. Holt (VAR 13-001).doc
          ATTACHMENT 3
DRAFT PC RESOLUTION FOR TPM 13-001
                                   PC RESOLUTION NO. 14-


A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF POMONA
APPROVING TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP (TPM 13-001) TO COMBINE THREE
PARCELS INTO ONE PARCEL ON PROPERTIES LOCATED AT 934 & 942 WEST
HOLT AVENUE.

     THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF POMONA DOES RESOLVE
AS FOLLOWS:

       WHEREAS, The applicant, Related California, has submitted an application for a Tentative
Parcel Map (TPM 13-001) to combine three parcels into one parcel on a property located at 934 &
942 West Holt Avenue in the R-4 (High Density Residential) zone;

        WHEREAS, a Tentative Parcel Map is required to allow the consolidation of three
existing parcels into one lot according to Chapter 29 of the Pomona City Code regarding
subdivisions;

      WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted for Conditional Use Permit (CUP
13-008) for the development of a 62-unit residential development;

       WHEREAS, the 62-unit residential development will provide low-income supportive
housing for individuals with a disability, a mental illness or a person identified as part of a
Special Needs Population as defined by the State Mental Health Services Act (MHSA);

         WHEREAS, the project plans to utilize tax credit funds administered by the California
Tax Credit Allocation Committee (CTCAC) and a Mental Health Services Act (MHSA) loan
administered by the California Housing Finance Authority (CalHFA). The term of the loan is 55
years and one of the loan requirements is that the 62 units must be provided with income
restrictions to keep the units affordable for low-income individuals. The restriction is in place for
the entire term of the loan;

       WHEREAS, the subject site is currently zoned C-IND (Commercial Industrial), and
designated "Industrial" by the City's General Plan;

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Change of Zone (CZ 13-001) to
change the zoning designation from C-IND (Commercial Industrial) to R-4 (High Density
Multiple Family);

      WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted General Plan Amendment (GPA
13-002) to change the Land Use designation from Industrial to High Density Residential;

       WHEREAS, the proposed subdivision meets all the development standards of the R-4
(High Density Residential) zone;

        WHEREAS, the subject property is located within a segment of Holt Avenue that is part
of the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan;
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 2 of 13


       WHEREAS, the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan has not been officially adopted
however, the subject project is designed to comply with the Specific Plan in anticipation of its
adoption by the City Council;

       WHEREAS, The Planning Commission of the City of Pomona has, after giving notice
thereof as required by law, held a public hearing on November 13, 2013 concerning Tentative
Parcel Map (TPM 13-004); and

       WHEREAS, The Planning Commission has carefully considered all pertinent testimony
and the staff report offered in the case as presented at the public hearing.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Planning Commission of
the City of Pomona, California, as follows:

        SECTION 1. The Planning Commission exercising independent judgment finds that the
project will not have an adverse effect on the environment. Pursuant to the Guidelines for
Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) found in the California
Public Resources Code, an Initial Study was prepared to assess the potential effects of this project
on the environment and found that although the proposed project could have a significant effect
on the environment, the effects will not be significant because mitigation measures added to the
project will reduce these effects to levels less than significant. Therefore, a Mitigated Negative
Declaration of Environmental Impacts with mandatory findings of significance and mitigations
has been prepared for the project. The Planning Commission hereby adopts said Mitigated
Negative Declaration, including the Mitigation Measures that have been incorporated as
Conditions of Approval for the project.

       SECTION 2. In accordance with the Subdivision Map Act and the City's Subdivision
Ordinance, the Planning Commission must make seven findings in order to approve Tentative
Parcel Map (TPM 13-001). Based on consideration of the whole record before it, including but
not limited to, the staff report, public testimony received at the public hearing on this matter, and
evidence made part of the public record, the Planning Commission hereby finds as follows:

1.     The proposed tentative parcel map is consistent with the City of Pomona General Plan.

       The project site has an existing General Plan Land Use designation of Industrial and a
       zoning designation of C-IND (Commercial Industrial). The applicant has concurrently
       submitted an application to change the General Plan Land Use Designation from
       Industrial to High Density Residential and to change the zoning designation from C-IND
       (Commercial Industrial) to R-4 (High Density Residential). One of the findings needed to
       approve the proposed parcel map is consistency with the General Plan. With the R-4
       zoning designation, the proposed subdivision is in conformance with the High Density
       Residential General Plan Designation for the City of Pomona. This General Plan land
       use designation provides for multiple- family residential development with densities up to
       70 units per acre. The proposed subdivision is consistent with this standard, and has a
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 3 of 13

      proposed density of 24.8 units per acre, which is less than the maximum density allowed
      by the General Plan. Additionally, the proposed development is also consistent with the
      following objective of the Housing Element of the General Plan:

         "It is the policy of the City to encourage the construction of new low-density
         developments and to be receptive to medium or higher density residential uses if
         properly located."


         "It is the policy of the City to encourage, with all means possible, the
         economic development and redevelopment of Pomona by the private sector."


2.    The design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is consistent with the City of
      Pomona General Plan.

      The design and improvements of the proposed subdivision are consistent with the
      General Plan in that on-site improvements, such as driveways, sidewalks and drainage
      facilities will be designed and constructed in accordance with City standards. In addition,
      the project design, which is intended for multiple-family residential development,
      provides for satisfactory pedestrian and vehicular circulation.

      Furthermore, the building architecture and the decorative enhancements to the common
      space will ensure a development that will have a high aesthetic quality that will be
      consistent with the following objective of the Community Design Element of the General
      Plan:

         "To insure the highest possible aesthetic quality in the architecture and other design
         considerations of new development."

3.    The site is physically suitable for the type of development.

      The site is physically suitable for the development in that the proposed subdivision is
      planned for multiple-family residential development. Given the shape and topography of
      the 108,729 square foot site, the subdivision design accommodates adequate land for 62
      dwelling units, accompanying driveways and open space areas to service the
      development. Further, the site is relatively flat which will allow for minimal grading and
      compatible building pad heights with adjacent properties surrounding the project site.

4.    The site is physically suitable for the proposed density of development.

      The site is physically suitable to accommodate the proposed density resulting from the
      subdivision. The subdivision proposes 62 dwelling units on 108,729 square feet, which
      results in a density of approximately 24.8 units per acre. This density is consistent with
      the City's General Plan.
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 4 of 13


5.     The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements is not likely to cause
       substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure fish or wildlife
       or their habitat.

       The proposed project will comply with the policies and regulations of the Pomona City
       Code and General Plan and with all local or regional plans, policies, regulations, and any
       requirements by the California Department of Fish and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife
       Service. Pursuant to the Guidelines for Implementation of the California Environmental
       Quality Act (CEQA) found in the California Public Resources Code, an Initial Study was
       prepared to assess the potential effects of this project on the environment, including
       biological resources, and found that although the proposed project could have a
       significant effect on the environment, the effects will not be significant because
       mitigation measures added to the project will reduce these effects to levels less than
       significant. Based on these factors, the proposed subdivision will not cause substantial
       environmental damage or injure wildlife or their habitat.

6.     The design of the subdivision or type of improvements is not likely to cause serious public
       health problems.

       The design of the subdivision and the type of improvements are not likely to cause
       serious problems to public health because the building and infrastructure improvements
       shall be constructed to conform to all City standards. The adopted City standards relating
       to the Uniform Building Code and Grading Code are designed to protect the public health
       and welfare and have been approved by the City.

7.     The design of the subdivision or type of improvements will not conflict with easements,
       acquired by the public at large, for access through or use of property within the proposed
       subdivision.

       The design of the subdivision or type of improvements will not conflict with easements
       acquired by the public at large. Further, the project will be compatible with the adjacent
       commercial and industrial properties in the vicinity.

         SECTION 4. Based on the above findings, the Planning Commission hereby approves
 Tentative Parcel Map (TPM 13-001) subject to the following conditions:

 PLANNING DIVISION

 General Conditions

1.     The subject property shall be subdivided in a manner consistent with the tentative parcel
       map as reviewed approved by the Planning Commission on January 29, 2014. Any major
       modifications to the approved tentative parcel map shall be reviewed and approved by the
       Planning Commission as part of a modification to the approved tentative parcel map.
 PC Resolution No. 14-
 TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
 Page 5 of 13

       Any minor modifications that do not affect the overall intent of the approved tentative
       parcel map, may be reviewed and approved by the Planning Manager.

 2.    This recommended approval shall lapse and become void if the privilege authorized by
       the Planning Commission is not utilized and recordation by the County of the final map is
       not obtained within two (2) years from the date of Planning Commission approval. The
       Planning Commission may extend this period for one year upon receipt of written request
       by the applicant at least thirty (30) days before the expiration date.

3.     The applicant shall indemnify, protect, defend, and hold harmless, the City, and/or any of
       its officials, officers, employees, agents, departments, agencies, and instrumentalities
       thereof, from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs of mandamus, and other
       actions and proceedings (whether legal, equitable, declaratory, administrative or
       adjudicatory in nature), and alternative dispute resolutions procedures (including, but not
       limited to arbitrations, mediations, and other such procedures), (collectively "Actions"),
       brought against the City, and/or any of its officials, officers, employees, agents,
       departments, agencies, and instrumentalities thereof, that challenge, attack, or seek to
       modify, set aside, void, or annul, the any action of, or any permit or approval issued by,
       the City and/or any of its officials, officers, employees, agents, departments, agencies,
       and instrumentalities thereof (including actions approved by the voters of the City), for or
       concerning the project, whether such Actions are brought under the California
       Environmental Quality Act, the Planning and Zoning Law, the Subdivisions Map Act,
       Code of Civil Procedure Section 1085 or 1094.5, or any other state, federal, or local
       statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, or any decision of a court of competent
       jurisdiction. It is expressly agreed that the City shall have the right to approve, which
       approval will not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the City's
       defense, and that applicant shall reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and
       necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. City shall promptly notify
       the applicant of any Action brought and City shall cooperate with applicant in the defense
       of the Action.

4.     In case of violation of any of the conditions of approval or City law, the property owner
       and tenant will be issued a Notice of Correction. If said violation is not remedied within a
       reasonable period of time and/or a subsequent violation of the conditions of approval
       and/or City law occurs within ninety (90) days of any Notice of Correction, the property
       owner shall be held responsible to reimburse the City for all staff time directly attributable
       to enforcement of the conditions of approval and/or City law, including, but not limited to,
       revocation of the herein conditional use permit.

5.     Written appeals may be filed with the City Clerk within twenty (20) days by one or more
       City Council members, the applicant, or any person owning property within 400-feet of
       the exterior boundary of the applicant's property.
       PC Resolution No. 14-
       TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
       Page 6 of 13

       PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT

       Parcel Map requirements:

      1.     The tentative parcel map shall be recorded and developed as one parcel map. Financial
             security must be provided for all public improvements prior to the map recordation.

      2.     Tentative Parcel Map shall conform to the requirements of the Subdivision Map Act and
             to City Ordinance No. 2779.

      3.     The final parcel map shall clearly identify the recording instrument for the Holt Avenue
             roadway and public utility dedication and depict the property blue border line along the
             southerly limit of Holt Avenue right-of-way; if this information is not available, said
             public right-of-way shall be dedicated on the proposed parcel map and the blue border
             line shall coincide with Holt Avenue centerline.

      4.     All existing and proposed easements for water/storm drain/sewer lines, ingress/egress and
             traveled ways must be clearly shown on the map. Prior to recordation, the applicant shall
             demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City Engineer that the proposed subdivision will not
             unreasonable interfere with the use of any easement holder of property. Any omission or
             misrepresentation of these documents may require the parcel map to be resubmitted for
             further consideration.

             Provide copies of all recorded instruments referenced in the easements section pertaining
             to the project's legal description.

      5.     Prior to the parcel map approval the Title Company must submit a Final Subdivision
             Guarantee to the Engineering Department.

      6.     All subdivisions must have centerline ties and survey property monuments set by a
             licensed Professional Civil Engineer or Land Surveyor as shown on the recorded
             subdivision. All final monuments shall be set by the Engineer of record within one year
             of the parcel map recordation; adequate monumentation bond is required prior to the final
             parcel map recordation.

      7.     Prior to the issuance of the grading permit, the parcel map shall be recorded to reflect the
             new lot lines. Mylar copies of the map with the Los Angeles County Recorder's Office
             official stamp must be submitted to the Engineering Department.

Improvement plans requirements:

      8.     Applicant/Developer shall submit the grading, drainage and erosion control plans for
             review and approval by the Public Works, Planning and Building and Safety
             Departments.
 PC Resolution No. 14-
 TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
 Page 7 of 13

       .      The scale used for the plans needs to be large enough (1"=10' is preferred) to
              clearly show all the details.
       .      One-foot topographic contours of the site must extend a minimum of 15 feet
              beyond the boundary lines.
       .      The plans shall include sufficient cross sections to show any block wall locations,
              parkway width and any permanent facilities that might require maintenance and
              access easements.
       .      Drainage configurations on the existing adjacent properties shall not be altered,
              redirected or modified in any way.
       .      The stormwater overflows generated by the proposed project area shall be
              primarily directed to the existing storm drain system in Holt Avenue via an
              underground lateral connection, and secondarily directed to the street gutter by
              using parkway drains.

9.     Prior to issuance of the grading permit the Applicant/Developer shall submit written
       notifications of adjacent property owners regarding the direct and indirect impact
       associated with the proposed construction.

10.    Prior to the issuance of the grading permit the applicant/developer shall provide non-
       interference letters from any applicable utility agencies for any utility easements located
       within the areas subject to grading activities. All such documents shall be subject to
       review and approval by the City Engineer.

11.    Prior to issuance of the grading permit the Applicant/Developer shall submit a soils and
       geologic report to address the soil's stability and geological conditions of the site.

12.     Applicant/Developer shall submit public street improvement plans to include the
        following:
       .       Holt Avenue re-pavement over its entire width, along the property frontage.
       .       Remove all four existing driveway approaches and replace them with new
               sidewalk; construct the project's new driveway apron to comply with city
               standards.
       .       ADA Compliant curb ramps.
       .       New sidewalk to replace existing damaged, cracked, uplifted sections.
       .       Parkway drains.
       .       Sidewalk landscaping: add one missing tree (Platanus x Acerifolia Columbia or
               London Plane Tree, Columbia cultivar) to match existing, in the vacant tree well.
       .       Street lights: five (5) twin head/arm post-top intermediate-scale street lights,
               located within the sidewalk planter strip, with a spacing of approximately 80 feet
               on center. Light sources should be located 16-18 feet above finished grade.
       .       Median landscaping/street lighting: Applicant/Developer is responsible for paying
               $335,016 representing the in lieu fees for the required median landscaping and
               street lighting improvements in compliance with the Pomona Corridor Specific
               Plan. This requirement shall be complied with if the City's General Plan Update
               and Corridors Specific Plan are adopted prior to the approval of the proposed
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 8 of 13

             development. Said City Plans are tentatively scheduled to be submitted for the
             Pomona City Council's approval on February 3, 2014.
      .      Existing utilities (sewer, water and storm drain), including laterals.
      .      Unobstructed visibility shall be ensured at the proposed Holt Avenue driveway;
      .      Note: "It is the owner's and the contractor's responsibility to repair all damage to
             the existing public improvements due to the proposed construction activities and
             to address all repairs requested by the Public Works Inspector based on the
             inspector's review of the current condition of the said public improvements".
      .      The demolition or relocation of any public improvements (street lights, signs,
             trees, vaults, catch basins, hydrants, etc) due to the proposed project construction
             must be coordinated and agreed upon by the appropriate City departments, shall
             be designed per City standards and applicable ADA requirements, and must be
             reviewed and approved by Public Works Engineering Department.

13.   Prior to approval of any improvement plans and/or grading permit issuance
      Applicant/Developer shall prepare a detailed hydrology study based on a 50-year storm
      event and a hydraulic analysis of the existing and proposed drainage conveyance
      capacity. These reports shall be submitted to the Public Works Department for review
      and approval. The Developer is responsible to comply with the approved hydrology study
      recommendations necessary to meet minimum Federal, State, County and City
      requirements.

14.   Applicant/Developer shall identify the existence of all City utilities that may be in
      conflict with the development and submit protection measures to the City Engineer for
      those City utilities.

15.   All improvements to the City's water system shall be installed at the Developer's
      expense in accordance with the provisions of the City of Pomona Water Code,
      Construction Standards and the Federal, State and County Public Health requirements,
      including payment of all required plan check fees, bonds, connection fees, water meter
      setting fees and all additional water facilities advance payments. Public water facilities
      that are existing or proposed to be installed on private property must be approved by the
      City Engineer prior to the issuance of the grading permit.

16.   Prior to the approval of the water improvement plans Applicant/Developer shall provide
      hydraulic calculations showing the proposed demand required by the site and the
      demand's impact on the existing water system. The Applicant/Developer must to verify
      (based on fixture units) that the proposed or existing service can provide the domestic and
      fire water demand given the size, pressure, and distance of these services from the
      proposed buildings. The calculation shall include fire and domestic water demands.

      If verification of static pressure is desired, it may be obtained by requesting a fire hydrant
      flow test from the Public Works Department. The localized approximate static pressure
      for the proposed project area is 45-50 psi.
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 9 of 13

      The proposed public water improvement plans shall include:

      a.       All existing and new utilities, including existing and proposed water facilities,
               water services and water easements:
               .        One (1) ten-inch (10") ACP water main in Holt Avenue.
             .         There is one (1) existing 1½-inch domestic meter at 934 W. Holt Avenue
                       and one (1) existing 5/8-inch domestic meter at 942 W. Holt Avenue
                       based on current records. Identify if both existing meters are to stay in
                       place. These services require reduced pressure backflow preventers to be
                       installed on the private side of the meter.
             .         There are several public fire hydrants within 300 feet of the proposed
                       project site.
               The existing water infrastructure must also be shown on the site plan.
      b.       All existing private/public infrastructure and water facilities adjacent to and
               affecting the development property including all underground utility connections.
      c.       Water Development plans are for public water improvements only; all private
               water improvements shall be addressed separately; any private onsite water
               improvements are the owner's responsibility and not the City's.
      d.       The City will install meters less than or equal to 2" in size.
      e.       Water/fire services may not cross property lines unless those separate properties
               have the same owner.
      f.       Property address, legal description, property lines, street centerline, curb-line,
               existing and proposed utility easements, and right-of-way with dimensions.

17.    During construction the developer and/or contractor shall:
      a.      Use the existing domestic water service provided that there is an existing
              backflow device in-line on the private side of the meter.
      b.      Request any water main shutdowns through the Public Works Department.
      c.      All newly installed water service lines shall be disinfected per City of Pomona,
              Water Division­Standard Specification for Water Facility Construction before
              connection to the existing water line.
      d.      Protect existing water lines in the area.

18.    All project related trench repairs in City maintained streets shall be per City Standard A-
       26-02. Following completion of all street/utility work, and prior to the issuance of the
       Certificate of Occupancy Applicant/Developer shall be required to repair all affected
       lanes of development street frontages to a condition "as good or better" as required per
       City Standard A-26-02.

19.    Prior to the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy Applicant/Developer is responsible
       for installing approved Reduced Pressure Backflow Preventers (list brand and model) for
       the following water lines to the site:
      a.       Reduced principal pressure devices are required for all domestic services;
      b.       Reduced principal pressure devices are required for all dedicated irrigation service
               lines to the proposed site;
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 10 of 13

      c.      Double check detector assembly devices for all fire sprinkler service lines, or
              onsite mains serving solely hydrants.

20.    Prior to the approval of the water improvement plans the Applicant/Developer shall meet
       all requirements of the Los Angeles County Fire Department (LACFD).
       Applicant/Developer shall contact LACFD to determine if additional fire hydrants are
       needed for the proposed development. Any new fire hydrants must be placed at least five
       (5) feet from proposed driveways and off of parking spaces. Proof of LACFD approval
       is required for Site Plan sign-off or final water improvement plan submittal to the Public
       Works Department. Contact the LACFD for information at (909) 620-2402. To meet any
       LACFD requirements for fire flow information for the existing mains in the area, a fire
       hydrant test shall be requested from the Public Works Department.

21.    Prior to approval of project's improvement plans, the Applicant/Developer shall submit
       calculations of the expected wastewater generated by the proposed development, to
       properly size the sewer lateral(s) to serve the new site.

22.    Prior to issuance of the building permit Applicant/Developer shall submit sewer
       improvement plans for review and approval by the Public Works Department. The sewer
       plans must include the following items:
      .        The existing sewer infrastructure:
             . One (1) eight-inch (8") VCP main in Holt Avenue.
             . Several existing sewer services according to current records.
      The existing sewer infrastructure must also be shown on the site plan.
      .        The proposed sewer mains, laterals, manholes.
      .        The sewer lateral separation distances, relative to water mains, shall comply with
               California Code of Regulations, Title 22.
      .        Construction Notes to include the following: The Contractor shall provide all
               temporary seals enclosures, forced ventilation or other devices as maybe
               necessary to prevent odor nuisance and solid objects from entering the existing
               sewer line during construction.

23.    The sewer laterals from the public main to the site are considered private and must be
       maintained by the property owners.

24.    New sewer laterals must be constructed per Standard No. B-8-61 per City of Pomona
       Public Works Department Standard Drawings August 2011 (Public Works Standards).
       Construction shall also comply with Standard No. A-26-02 per the Public Works
       Standards.

25.    Effective January 1, 2014, the City has adopted new service charges for water and sewer
       services. For further information on how charges are assessed, contact the City's Public
       Works Business Services Division at 909-620-2241.
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 11 of 13

26.   The final improvement plans, as shown on the Mylar, shall be provided to the City in
      both hard copy and electronic in Auto CAD v. 2004 and .pdf formats. Following
      construction and prior to acceptance of the improvements by the City, the project
      engineer shall provide hand drafted "AS BUILT" corrections on the original approved
      Mylars of the final constructed improvements to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. A
      corrected "AS BUILT" plan shall also be provided to the City on disk in Auto CAD v.
      2004 and .pdf formats.

27.   Traffic: Minimum one-car queue shall be allowed beyond the sidewalk area when
      installing the traffic access gate at Holt Avenue entrance.

28.    Prior to issuance of the grading permit Applicant/Developer shall develop and obtain the
       City approval of the final Standard Urban Stormwater Mitigation Plan (SUSMP) for the
       proposed project. The SUSMP shall be prepared in accordance with the Los Angeles
       County SUSMP Manual, and must include:
      .         Site Design BMPs;
      .         Source Control BMPs;
      .         Treatment Control BMPs; and
      .         Recorded Maintenance Covenant for SUSMP.
      Post-construction Structural and/or Treatment Control BMPs, shall be designed to mitigate
       (infiltrate or harvest and use) storm water run-off from the 85th percentile 24-hour rain
       event or 0.75-inch, 24-hour rain event, whichever is greater. The results of infiltration
       testing shall be provided as part of the SUSMP submittal.

29.   The project involves soil-disturbing activities in excess of 1 acre therefore the project
      applicant shall apply for a State General Construction Permit (Order No. CAS000002)
      and submit a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan to the City.

30.   Prior to issuance of the building permits applicant/developer is responsible for paying the
      project's impact fees for traffic signals and control devices, road and highway
      improvements, and public safety improvements.

31.   Property Owner is responsible for the compliance with any special annual levy
      assessment derived from the current inclusion of the project site into the City's Street
      Lighting and Landscaping Maintenance District. The due assessment levy will be
      adjusted based on the proposed subdivision. The Developer shall disclose to any future
      buyers that the property is within the City of Pomona Lighting and Landscaping District
      and is subject to annual special taxes.

32.   The plans shall be submitted on 24" x 36" sheet size with a standard City title block, and
      must correctly identify the property owner, address, legal description, property lines,
      street centerline, curb-lines, existing and proposed utilities (water, sewer, and storm
      drain), utility easements, and the public right-of-way areas with dimensions.
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 12 of 13

Public Works Improvements Permit:

All work in the public right-of-way is subject to review, approval, and permitting requirements
of Public Works Department.

33.    Prior to grading permit issuance Applicant/Developer shall post surety bonds for all
       public improvements, including but not limited to: water, sewer, storm drains, street
       frontage pavement, sidewalk, drainage and parkway improvements, and driveway
       approaches.
34.    Permittee shall procure and maintain throughout the period of the Permit the following
       policies of insurance:
      a.       Commercial General Liability;
      b.       Automobile Liability;
      c.       Worker's Compensation as required by the State of California;
      Note: The Commercial General Liability and the Automobile Liability policies shall
               include the City of Pomona as additional insured.

35.    Permittee shall pay fees associated with and possess the City of Pomona Business
       License.

36.    Changes and additions to the proposed work, including but not limited to detail plans for
       street improvement work, water plans and/or other work associated with this project and
       due to developer's or City's request shall require additional conditions to be completed
       by the applicant.

LOS ANGELES COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT:

37.    Submit a copy of the Tentative Parcel Map to the Land Development Unit (LDU) for
       review and approval prior to submitting to Fire Prevention Engineering for building plan
       review.

        SECTION 5. The Secretary shall certify to the adoption of this Resolution and forward
the original to the City Clerk.

              APPROVED AND PASSED THIS 13th DAY OF NOVEMBER 2013



                                               _______________________________________
                                               DENTON MOSIER
                                               PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIRPERSON
PC Resolution No. 14-
TPM 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 13 of 13

ATTEST:




BRAD JOHNSON
PLANNING COMMISSION SECRETARY



APPROVED AS TO FORM:




ANDREW JARED
ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY
STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) ss.
CITY OF POMONA     )


         AYES:
         NOES:
         ABSTAIN:
         ABSENT:


Pursuant to Resolution No. 76-258 of the City of Pomona, the time in which judicial review of
this action must be sought is governed by Sec. 1094.6 C.C.P."




I:\Economic Development\Planning\Master Planning\PLANNING COMMISSION\RESOLUTIONS\934 & 942 W. Holt Ave. (TPM 13-001).doc
         ATTACHMENT 4
DRAFT PC RESOLUTION FOR CZ 13-001
                                 PC RESOLUTION NO. 14-


       A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
       POMONA RECOMMENDING CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL OF
       CHANGE OF ZONE (CZ 13-001) TO CHANGE THE ZONING
       DESIGNATION FROM C-IND (COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL) TO R-4
       (HIGH DENSITY MULTIPLE FAMILY) FOR A PROPERTY LOCATED
       AT 934 & 942 WEST HOLT AVENUE.

       WHEREAS, the applicant, Related California, has filed an application for Change of
Zone (CZ 13-001) to change the zoning designation from C-IND (Commercial Industrial) to R-4
(Hight Density Multiple Family) on a 108,729 square foot (2.49 acre) lot on property located at
934 & 942 West Holt Avenue;

       WHEREAS, the subject site is currently zoned C-IND (Commercial Industrial), and
designated "Industrial" by the City's General Plan;

      WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted General Plan Amendment (GPA
13-002) to change the Land Use designation from Industrial to High Density Residential;

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-
008) for the development of a 62-unit residential development;

       WHEREAS, the 62-unit residential development will provide low-income supportive
housing for individuals with a disability, a mental illness or a person identified as part of a
Special Needs Population as defined by the State Mental Health Services Act (MHSA);

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Variance (VAR 13-001) to vary
from development standards for a property in the R-4 (High Density Multiple Family) zone;

      WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted for Tentative Parcel Map (TPM
13-001) to consolidate three lots into one;

        WHEREAS, the subject property is located within a segment of Holt Avenue that is part
of the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan;

       WHEREAS, the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan has not been officially adopted
however, the subject project is designed to comply with the Specific Plan in anticipation of its
adoption by the City Council.;

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City of Pomona has, after giving notice
thereof as required by law held a public hearing on January 29, 2014, concerning the requested
Change of Zone (CZ 13-001); and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has carefully considered all pertinent testimony
and the staff report offered in the case as presented at the public hearing.
PC Resolution No. 14-
CZ 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 2 of 3

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Planning Commission of
the City of Pomona, California as follows:

        SECTION 1. The Planning Commission exercising independent judgment finds that the
project will not have an adverse effect on the environment. Pursuant to the Guidelines for
Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) found in the California
Public Resources Code, an Initial Study was prepared to assess the potential effects of this
project on the environment and found that although the proposed project could have a significant
effect on the environment, the effects will not be significant because mitigation measures added
to the project will reduce these effects to levels less than significant. Therefore, a Mitigated
Negative Declaration of Environmental Impacts with mandatory findings of significance and
mitigations has been prepared for the project. The Planning Commission hereby adopts said
Mitigated Negative Declaration, including the Mitigation Measures that have been incorporated
as Conditions of Approval for the project.

       SECTION 2. Based on consideration of the whole record before it, including but not
limited to, the staff report, public testimony received at the public hearing on this matter, and
evidence made part of the public record, the Planning Commission hereby finds that the
proposed Change of Zone is in the public interest and in the interest of the furtherance of the
public health, safety, and welfare and is consistent with the goals, objectives, policies, and
programs of the Pomona General Plan.

       SECTION 3. The Planning Commission of the City of Pomona hereby recommends
City Council approval of Change of Zone (CZ 13-001) to change the zoning designation from C-
IND (Commercial Industrial) to R-4 (High Density Multiple Family) on a 108,729 square foot
(2.49 acre) lot on properties located at 934 & 942 West Holt Avenue as shown on attached
"Exhibits A & B."

        SECTION 4. The Secretary shall certify to the adoption of this Resolution and forward
the original to the City Clerk.


              APPROVED AND PASSED THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2014




                                                                                         `
                                            DENTON MOSIER
                                            PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIRPERSON
PC Resolution No. 14-
CZ 13-001 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 3 of 3

ATTEST:




_______________________________________
BRAD JOHNSON
PLANNING COMMISSION SECRETARY


APPROVED AS TO FORM:



___________________________________
ANDREW JARED
ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
CITY OF POMONA


         AYES:
         NOES:
         ABSTAIN:
         ABSENT:

"Pursuant to Resolution No. 76-258 of the City of Pomona the time in which judicial review of
this action must be sought is governed by Sec. 1094.6 C.C.P




I:\Economic Development\Planning\Master Planning\PLANNING COMMISSION\RESOLUTIONS\934 & 942 W. Holt Ave. (CZ 13-001).doc
          ATTACHMENT 5
DRAFT PC RESOLUTION FOR GPA 13-002
                                  PC RESOLUTION NO. 14-


       A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
       POMONA RECOMMENDING CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL OF
       GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT (GPA 13-002) TO CHANGE THE LAND
       USE DESIGNATION FROM INDUSTRIAL TO HIGH DENSITY
       RESIDENTIAL FOR A PROPERTY LOCATED AT 934 & 942 WEST
       HOLT AVENUE.

       WHEREAS, the applicant, Related California, has filed an application for General Plan
Amendment (GPA 13-002) to change the Land Use designation from Industrial to High Density
Residential on a 108,729 square foot (2.49 acre) lot on properties located at 934 & 942 West
Holt Avenue;

       WHEREAS, the subject site is currently zoned C-IND (Commercial Industrial), and
designated "Industrial" by the City's General Plan;

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Change of Zone (CZ 13-001) to
change the zoning designation from C-IND (Commercial Industrial) to R-4 (High Density
Multiple Family);

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Conditional Use Permit (CUP 13-
008) for the development of a 62-unit residential development;

        WHEREAS, the 62-unit residential development will provide low-income supportive
housing for families and individuals with a disability, a mental illness or a person identified as
part of a Special Needs Population as defined by the State Mental Health Services Act (MHSA);

       WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted Variance (VAR 13-001) to vary
from development standards for a property in the R-4 (High Density Multiple Family) zone;

      WHEREAS, the applicant has concurrently submitted for Tentative Parcel Map (TPM
13-001) to consolidate three lots into one;

        WHEREAS, the subject property is located within a segment of Holt Avenue that is part
of the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan;

       WHEREAS, the Draft Pomona Corridors Specific Plan has not been officially adopted
however, the subject project is designed to comply with the Specific Plan in anticipation of its
adoption by the City Council.;

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City of Pomona has, after giving notice
thereof as required by law held a public hearing on January 29, 2014, concerning the requested
General Plan Amendment (GPA 13-002); and
PC Resolution No. 14-
GPA 13-002 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 2 of 3

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has carefully considered all pertinent testimony
and the staff report offered in the case as presented at the public hearing.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Planning Commission of
the City of Pomona, California as follows:

        SECTION 1. The Planning Commission exercising independent judgment finds that the
project will not have an adverse effect on the environment. Pursuant to the Guidelines for
Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) found in the California
Public Resources Code, an Initial Study was prepared to assess the potential effects of this
project on the environment and found that although the proposed project could have a significant
effect on the environment, the effects will not be significant because mitigation measures added
to the project will reduce these effects to levels less than significant. Therefore, a Mitigated
Negative Declaration of Environmental Impacts with mandatory findings of significance and
mitigations has been prepared for the project. The Planning Commission hereby adopts said
Mitigated Negative Declaration, including the Mitigation Measures that have been incorporated
as Conditions of Approval for the project.

        SECTION 2. Based on consideration of the whole record before it, including but not
limited to, the staff report, public testimony received at the public hearing on this matter, and
evidence made part of the public record, the Planning Commission hereby finds that the
proposed General Plan Amendment (GPA 13-003) is in the public interest and in the interest of
the furtherance of the public health, safety, and welfare and is consistent with the goals,
objectives, policies, and programs of the Pomona General Plan.

        SECTION 3. The Planning Commission of the City of Pomona hereby recommends
City Council approval of General Plan Amendment (GPA 13-003) to change the Land Use
Designation from General Commercial to Medium Density on a 69,446 square foot (1.59 acre)
lot on property located at 1445 East Holt Avenue as shown on attached "Exhibits A & B."

        SECTION 4. The Secretary shall certify to the adoption of this Resolution and forward
the original to the City Clerk.

              APPROVED AND PASSED THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2014




                                                                          `
                                            DENTON MOSIER
                                            PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIRPERSON
PC Resolution No. 14-
GPA 13-002 ­ 934 & 942 W. Holt Ave.
Page 3 of 3

ATTEST:



__________________________________________
BRAD JOHNSON
PLANNING COMMISSION SECRETARY


APPROVED AS TO FORM:



___________________________________
ANDREW JARED
ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
CITY OF POMONA


         AYES:
         NOES:
         ABSTAIN:
         ABSENT:


"Pursuant to Resolution No. 76-258 of the City of Pomona the time in which judicial review of
this action must be sought is governed by Sec. 1094.6 C.C.P




I:\Economic Development\Planning\Master Planning\PLANNING COMMISSION\RESOLUTIONS\934 & 942 W. Holt Ave. (GPA 13-002).doc
           ATTACHMENT 6
LOCATION MAP & AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH OF
            PROJECT SITE
Location Map & Aerial Photograph
      934 & 942 W. Holt Avenue
          ATTACHMENT 7
PROJECT PLANS (8½" x 11") REDUCTIONS
                                                                                             SHEET INDEX
    HOLT FAMILY APARTMENTS                                                          NUMBER         SHEET TITLE

    POMONA, CA
    APNs: 8348-009-306, 907 & 308
    PRODUCT TYPE: APARTMENTS AND TOWNHOMES



    APPLICANT:                     RELATED COMPANIES
                                   18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900 Irvine, CA
                                   TELEPHONE: (949) 660-7272


    ARCHITECT:                     DANIELIAN ASSOCIATES
                                   SIXTY CORPORATE PARK, IRVINE, CA 92606
                                   (949) 474-6030 FAX: (949) 474-1422
                                   www.danielian.com




    CIVIL ENGINEER          LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT         ELECTRICAL CONSULTANT
    C & V CONSULTING, INC   DWLA                        SOUTHWEST GROUP
    27156 BURBANK,          LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE      ENGINEERING
    FOOTHILL RANCH                                      9790 IRVINE CENTER DRIVE,
    CALIFORNIA 92610                                    SUITE 200
    949.916.3800            714.730.3947                IRVINE, CA 92618
                                                        (949) 387-8989




                                                                                                                     934 AND 942 W. HOLT AVE., POMONA, CA
                                                                                                                              APNS: 83448-009-306,307 & 308
C



                                                                                                             18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900
                                                                                                                 Irvine, CA 92612 (949) 660-7272
                                                                                                                                                                   60 CORPORATE PARK
                                                                                                                                                              IRVINE, CA 92606 (949) 474-6030   T-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT ENTRY


                                   EXISTING CURB
                                   EXISTING SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                                       297'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             48'
                                                                                                                                                                                           250'59'




                                                                                                                                                                                                     6'
                                                                                                               40'                                          40'




                                                                                              6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                     10'
                                   ENHANCED PAVING AND SEATING
                                   iSEE LANDSCAPE DETAILS                                                            30'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             14'
                                                                                                               13'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20'
                                                                                                                                                                                             20'
                                                                                                   18'




                                                                                                                                    20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2                 7
                                   SECURITY
                                   FENCING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEIGHBORHOOD STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                          223'                                                                                                                                                                                  w/PUBLIC OPEN SPACE
                                   BUILDING 1 - APARTMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                39' ROW
                                   3 STORIES                                                 11'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (46' w/additional parking)
                                   16,500 SF FLOOR AREA PER LEVEL
                                   COMMUNITY FACILITIES
                                    MULTI-PURPOSE ROOM, LAUNDRY, MEDIA ROOM,
                                    LOUNGE, KITCHEN, ETC.
                                   16 - 1 BR/1 BA (16 MHSA)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r 32.5'
                                   27 - 2 BR/1 BA (5 MHSA)
                                   43 TOTAL UNITS                                            10'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIRE TURN-AROUND


                                   TRASH AND RECYCLING




                                                                                                         7'




                                                                                                                                                      20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5'


                                                                                                                                               1.5'                                                                     1.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.5'
                                   BUILDING 2 - TOWNHOMES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GATE
                                                                                                                                          8'                                                                                         13'
                                   2 STORIES                                   5'        3                                    3                                                                                                            20'
                                   2,850 SF FLOOR AREA PER LEVEL                                   28'                                         1.5'


                                   5 - 3 BR/2 BA UNITS                                   4




                                                                                                                       9.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11'
                                   2 ACCESSIBLE UNITS                                                                         18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEIGHBORHOOD STREET




                                                                                                                                                                      6'
                                                                                                                              3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 58' ROW
                                                                                                                                                                                5                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6'   7'       20'     7'    6'    6'   7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7'         6'


                                    TRASH AND RECYCLING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             58'                                             10'


                                    EXTERIOR WALLS TO BE CLAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       34'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9'
                                    WITH DECORATIVE MATERIALS
                                    COMPATIBLE WITH MAIN BUILDINGS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3                                                                         4                                                                    BUILDING 4 - TOWNHOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5'
                                                                                    5'
                                                                                                               3                                                  4                                                                                                                                                 46'                                             11'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2 STORIES
                                    MAINTENANCE BUILDING (440 SF)                                                                                                                     28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2,850 SF FLOOR AREA PER LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5'




                                                                                                              5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3                                                5                                                                                             NINE - 3 BR/2 BA UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.5'

                                                                                                                                                                           7'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                            9.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                                    18'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      58'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                POTENTIAL FUTURE NORTH-SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEIGHBORHOOD STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                58' ROW




                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERMEDIATE FIRE                                                   BUILDING 3 - TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                            TURN-AROUND                                                         2 STORIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2,850 SF FLOOR AREA PER LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIVE - 3 BR/2 BA UNITS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN
    NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               934 AND 942 W. HOLT AVE., POMONA, CA
            0'   15'   30'   60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        APNS: 83448-009-306,307 & 308
C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             60 CORPORATE PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Irvine, CA 92612 (949) 660-7272                 IRVINE, CA 92606 (949) 474-6030


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET A-1
                                                                                                                      BLDG. 1




                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                   5                                                 4


                                                                                                         N

                                                                                                                                             KEY PLAN




                                                                                        BUILDING 1
BUILDING 1
                                                                       COMPOSITE PLAN- ROOF LEVEL
                                   NOTE:
                                   SEE ENLARGED UNIT A&B FLOOR PLANS
      NORTH




                                                                                  934 AND 942 W. HOLT AVE., POMONA, CA
              0'   4'   8'   16'   FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION                              APNS: 83448-009-306,307 & 308
C



                                                                          18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900
                                                                              Irvine, CA 92612 (949) 660-7272
                                                                                                                                60 CORPORATE PARK
                                                                                                                           IRVINE, CA 92606 (949) 474-6030   A-5
                                              B                   BLDG. 1             B




B. BUILDING SECTION                                           2
                                                                             3
                                               5                                                 4


                                                     N

                                                                                          KEY PLAN




                                     BUILDING 1
                           EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

                              934 AND 942 W. HOLT AVE., POMONA, CA
 0'   4'   8'   16'
                                       APNS: 83448-009-306,307 & 308
  C



                      18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900
                          Irvine, CA 92612 (949) 660-7272
                                                                            60 CORPORATE PARK
                                                                       IRVINE, CA 92606 (949) 474-6030   A-8.1
                                  A. SECTION




                                                                                             BLDG. 1




                                                                                     A
                                                                             B           2
                                                                                    A                   3
                                                                        5                                                   4
                     B. SECTION
                                                                              N

                                                                                                                    KEY PLAN




                                                                BUILDINGS 2
                                                        5-PLEX TOWNHOMES
                                                                  SECTIONS

                                                       934 AND 942 W. HOLT AVE., POMONA, CA
0'   4'   8'   16'
                                                                APNS: 83448-009-306,307 & 308
 C



                                               18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900
                                                                                                       60 CORPORATE PARK
                                                   Irvine, CA 92612 (949) 660-7272                IRVINE, CA 92606 (949) 474-6030
                                                                                        BLDG. 1




                                                                                    2
                                                                                                   3
                    UNIT A      UNIT B                                                                                 4
                    1-BR UNIT   2-BR UNIT
                                                                           N

                                                                                                               KEY PLAN




                                                                                                    REV. JAN. 7, 2014
                                                                                                    REV. AUG. 15, 2013



                                                             BUILDING 1
                                             UNIT "A & B" FLOOR PLANS

                                                    934 AND 942 W. HOLT AVE., POMONA, CA
0'   2'   4'   8'
                                                             APNS: 83448-009-306,307 & 308
C



                                            18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900
                                                                                                  60 CORPORATE PARK
                                                Irvine, CA 92612 (949) 660-7272              IRVINE, CA 92606 (949) 474-6030
                                                                                                                                        BLDG. 1




                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                             ENRTY
                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                  ENTRY

                                                                                                                           N

                                                                                                                                                               KEY PLAN


                                       UNIT C- ALTERNATE                      UNIT C
                                      GROUND FLOOR ACCESSIBLE UNIT WITH    3-BR TOWNHOUSE
                                      2ND FLOOR SIMILAR TO STANDARD UNIT




                                                                                                      BUILDINGS 2,3 & 4
                                                                                                          TOWNHOMES
                    KEYNOTES
                                                                                                 "UNIT C" FLOOR PLANS
                    1 SEE SITE PLAN FOR PATIO AREA OUTLINE
                        SIDE WINDOW AT END UNITS-
                    2                                                                               934 AND 942 W. HOLT AVE., POMONA, CA
0'   2'   4'   8'       SEE COMPOSITE PLAN FOR LOCATION.                                                     APNS: 83448-009-306,307 & 308
C



                                                                                            18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900
                                                                                                                                                  60 CORPORATE PARK
                                                                                                Irvine, CA 92612 (949) 660-7272              IRVINE, CA 92606 (949) 474-6030
STORAGE SECTION           G   NORTH ELEVATION (STORAGE)       A    SOUTH ELEVATION (STORAGE)            B
SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"           SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"                  SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"




TRASH SECTION             H                                                              EAST ELEVATION C
SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"           SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"




                              NORTH ELEVATION (TRASH)         D    SOUTH ELEVATION (TRASH)              E
                              SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"                  SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"




                                                                                                                                             FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                            SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"

                                                                                         WEST ELEVATION F
                              SCALE: 1'-0" = 1/8"


                                                    MAINTENANCE BUILDING / TRASH ENCLOSURE                                                934 AND 942 W. HOLT AVE., POMONA, CA
                                                                                                                                                   APNS: 83448-009-306,307 & 308
                      C



                                                                                                                                  18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900
                                                                                                                                      Irvine, CA 92612 (949) 660-7272
                                                                                                                                                                                        60 CORPORATE PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                   IRVINE, CA 92606 (949) 474-6030   A-17
   ATTACHMENT 8
COLORED ELEVATIONS
REV.JANUARY17,2014




                 2
                 4
      ATTACHMENT 9
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE AND
      400' RADIUS MAP
        ATTACHMENT 10
       INITIAL STUDY AND
MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
City of Pomona

West Holt Avenue
Apartment Project




                 Final
                 Initial Study -
                 Mitigated
                 Negative
                 Declaration


                 January 2014
    West Holt Avenue Apartment Project

                     Final
Initial Study ­ Mitigated Negative Declaration




                         Prepared by:

                       City of Pomona
                     Purchasing Division
                  505 South Garey Avenue
                  Pomona, California 91766
          Contact: Brad Johnson, Planning Manager
                        (909) 620-2191




                Prepared with the assistance of:

                  Rincon Consultants, Inc.
                180 North Ashwood Avenue
                 Ventura, California 93003




                        January 2014
This report is printed on 50% recycled paper with 50% post-consumer content.
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                   Page

Initial Study
         1. Project title........................................................................................................................... 1
         2. Lead agency name and address ....................................................................................... 1
         3. Contact person and phone number ................................................................................. 1
         4. Project location ................................................................................................................... 1
         5. Project sponsor's name and address ............................................................................... 1
         6. General plan designation .................................................................................................. 1
         7. Zoning .................................................................................................................................. 1
         8. Description of project ........................................................................................................ 1
         9. Surrounding land uses and setting.................................................................................. 2
         10. Other public agencies whose approval is required ....................................................... 2

Environmental Factors Affected ........................................................................................................... 7

Determination .......................................................................................................................................... 8

Environmental Checklist........................................................................................................................ 9

Discussion
                  I.     Aesthetics .................................................................................................................. 9
                  II.    Agriculture and Forest Resources ....................................................................... 10
                  III.   Air Quality .............................................................................................................. 11
                  IV.    Biological Resources .............................................................................................. 16
                  V.     Cultural Resources................................................................................................. 20
                  VI.    Geology and Soils .................................................................................................. 24
                  VII. Greenhouse Gas Emissions .................................................................................. 26
                  VIII. Hazards and Hazardous Materials ..................................................................... 32
                  IX.    Hydrology and Water Quality ............................................................................. 35
                  X.     Land Use and Planning......................................................................................... 38
                  XI.    Mineral Resources ................................................................................................. 38
                  XII. Noise ........................................................................................................................ 39
                  XIII. Population and Housing....................................................................................... 45
                  XIV. Public Services........................................................................................................ 46
                  XV. Recreation ............................................................................................................... 48
                  XVI. Transportation/Traffic .......................................................................................... 49
                  XVII. Utilities and Service Systems ............................................................................... 63
                  XVIII. Mandatory Findings of Significance ................................................................... 65

            References ................................................................................................................................. 68




                                                                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                                              i
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


List of Tables

        Table 1     SCAQMD Air Quality Significance Thresholds ................................................ 13
        Table 2     SCAQMD Local Significance Thresholds for Construction ............................. 14
        Table 3     Estimated Maximum Unmitigated Construction Emissions ........................... 15
        Table 4     Estimated Operational Emissions ....................................................................... 15
        Table 5     Total On-Site Construction Criteria Pollutant Emissions Compared to
                    Localized Significance Thresholds....................................................................... 16
        Table 6     Estimated Emissions of Greenhouse Gases ...................... .......................... 28
        Table 7     Project Consistency with 2006 CAT Report Greenhouse Gas Emission
                    Reduction Strategies .............................................................................................. 28
        Table 8     Project Consistency with Applicable Attorney General Greenhouse Gas
                    Reduction Measures .............................................................................................. 31
        Table 9     City of Pomona Noise Standards for Multi-family Residential
                    Properties ................................................................................................................ 41
        Table 10    Typical Vibration Source Levels for Construction Equipment ....................... 44
        Table 11    Population and Employment Growth in the City, County,
                    and Region .............................................................................................................. 46
        Table 12    City of Pomona Intersection Impact Threshold Criteria .................................. 51
        Table 13    Summary of Volume to Capacity Ratios and Levels of Service
                    Weekday AM and PM Peak Hours ..................................................................... 54
        Table 14    Project Trip Generation ......................................................................................... 54
        Table 15    Projected Average Water Supply and Demand (AFY) ..................................... 64
        Table 16    Solid Waste Disposal Facilities ............................................................................. 66

List of Figures

        Figure 1    Project Location ........................................................................................................ 3
        Figure 2    Project Site Plan ........................................................................................................ 4
        Figure 3a   Site Photos ................................................................................................................. 5
        Figure 3b   Site Photos ................................................................................................................. 6
        Figure 4    Sensitive Elements and Critical Habitat Reported by the California
                    Natural Diversity Database Within a 2-Mile Radius ........................................ 19
        Figure 5    Project Trip Distribution ....................................................................................... 53
        Figure 6    Existing Traffic Volumes ....................................................................................... 56
        Figure 7    Existing + Project Traffic Volumes ...................................................................... 57
        Figure 8    Future without Project Traffic Volumes ............................................................. 59
        Figure 9    Future with Project Traffic Volumes ................................................................... 60

Appendices

        Appendix A              Air Quality and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Calculations
        Appendix B              Historic Resources Report
        Appendix C              Traffic Impact Study (Linscott, Law, & Greenspan, Engineers)




                                                                                                                               City of Pomona
                                                                     ii
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                           INITIAL STUDY
1.    Project title:

      West Holt Avenue Apartment Project

2.    Lead agency name and address:

      City of Pomona
      Purchasing Division
      505 South Garey Avenue
      Pomona, California 91766

3.    Contact Person and Phone Number:

      Brad Johnson
      Planning Manager
      City of Pomona
      (909) 620-2191

4.    Project location:

      The project site is located at 934 and 942 West Holt Avenue in the City of Pomona. The
      project site includes Assessor Parcel Numbers (APN) 8348-009-906; -907; and -908. The 2.5-
      acre site is located on the south side of West Holt Avenue between Hamilton Boulevard
      and Fillmore Place. The project site's location in a regional context is shown on Figure 1.
      An aerial photograph of the site and surrounding land uses is shown on Figure 2. Figures
      3a and 3b show the existing project site.

5.    Project sponsor's name and address:

      Pomona Housing Authority
      505 South Garey Avenue
      Pomona, California 91766

6.    General Plan designation:

      Urban Neighborhood

7.    Zoning:

      High Density Multiple Family (R-4)

8.    Description of project:

      The proposed project would involve the construction of a 62-unit apartment complex. The
      project site is currently occupied by mobile homes and a permanent residence.


                                                                                   City of Pomona
                                                 1
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


      Approximately 19 mobile homes would either be relocated or demolished and the
      permanent residence would be demolished to accommodate the proposed project.

      The proposed apartment complex would consist of 19 townhomes and 43 apartment units.
      The apartment units would consist of 27 two-bedroom units and 16 one-bedroom units,
      located in a three-story building of approximately 38 feet in height. The townhomes would
      be two-stories and approximately 24 feet in height. In addition, 21 of the 62 units would be
      designated for Mental Health Services Act housing.

      Access and Parking
      Vehicle access to the project site would be via a single driveway along West Holt Avenue
      on the eastern portion of the property. On-site vehicle parking for residents would be
      provided by surface lots toward the rear of the property. A total of 73 parking spaces
      would be provided.

      Utilities
      The proposed project would connect to existing on-site infrastructure for water and waste
      water services.

      Project Construction
      The project would be built in a single phase over approximately 12 months, tentatively
      scheduled to begin in 2013.

9.    Surrounding land uses and setting:

      The project site is located on West Holt Avenue in a predominantly commercial area.
      There is a market and a restaurant located to the east of the proposed project and vacant
      commercial buildings lie to the west. Both properties east and west have land use
      designations of Urban Neighborhood. To the north, across West Holt Avenue, are motels
      and restaurants. The businesses to the north have land use designations of Urban Edge.
      South of the proposed project are single-family residences, which are designated as Urban
      Neighborhood.

10.   Other public agencies whose approval is required:

The project requires approval by the City of Pomona. The entitlements required from the City
include:

        Conditional Use Permit and General Plan amendment so that the proposed project can be
        designed in accordance with the Corridor Specific Plan, which has not yet been adopted.
        Zone change to up-zone the project site from R-4 to Corridor Specific Plan.
        Variance to reduce the parking requirement from 97 parking spaces to 70 parking spaces.

Approvals from other agencies would not be required.




                                                                                        City of Pomona
                                                   2
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                             W Holt Avenue




Basemap Sources: Esri, DeLorme, NAVTEQ, USGS, Intermap,
iPC, NRCAN, Esri Japan, METI, Esri China (Hong Kong), Esri
(Thailand), TomTom, 2012
Source: Esri, i-cubed, USDA, USGS, AEX, GeoEye,
Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, and the GIS User Community

                                                                             Project Location


             _
             ^       Project Location
                                                                             _
                                                                             ^
                     Project Boundary




                0
                         ±40        80 Feet




                                                      Project Location                      Figure 1
                                                                                       Ctiy of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




   SECURITY                                                                                         214'
                                                                                                             HOLT AVENUE
                                                                                                                 297'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0'   15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30'   60'

   FENCING




                                                                                                                     12'
                                                             12'




                                                                                                                                                      14'
                                                                                                                                    18'
                                                                                                           18'
                                                      18'
                                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                              10'
                                                                                                                                                                                  39'
  APARTMENT BUILDING                                                                                                                                            29'
  3 STORIES
  COMMUNITY FACILITIES                                                                 15'
  16 - 1 BR
  27 - 2 BR
  43 TOTAL UNITS




                                                                                                                                                21'
                                              10'


                                              10'                                              VILLAGE                                                                                                             SECURITY FENCING
                                                                                               GREEN
                                                                                                                                                            3
  TRASH
                                                                                                                                          LANDSCAPE
                                                            9'




                                                                            27'
                                                                                                                                          SPACE                                                                    FIRE TURN-AROUND




                                                                                                                                                                                              10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                            329'
                                                                                                                               5'                                                                                  GATE
                                     5'                                8'




                                                                                                                                          10'
                                          5                        5                                                               17'                  11'
                                                    28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOWNHOME BUILDING
                                                                                             13'


                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                               10'
                                                                                  8'




                                                                   3                           5                           5                                                                                       5 - 3 BR
                                                                                                                                    10'
                                                                                  28'




                                                                                                                                                                                                     172'
                                                                                                                                                                        58'

                                     5'                                                                                                                         4
                                                                              4                                                3                        5'
                                                                                                                                    12'
   MAINTENANCE BUILDING,                                                                           28'                                                                                                             TOWNHOME BUILDING
                                                     5'




   TRASH AND RECYCLING                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                               10'                 9 - 3 BR

                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                28'




                                                                                                                 5                         5                        5




                                                                                                                                                                                        10'
                                                                                                                                                                        58'                                        POTENTIAL FUTURE NORTH-SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NEIGHBORHOOD STREET
                                                                                                                       INTERMEDIATE FIRE                                                                           58' ROW
                                                                                                                       TURN-AROUND



Source: DANIELIAN ASSOCIATES, 2013                                                                           Project Site Plan                                                                                                                   Figure 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      City of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




                 Eastern driveway of the existing mobile home park, looking south.




              View from the southern portion of the mobile home park, looking north.



                                                 Site Photos

                                                                                        Figure 3a
                                                                                     City of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




       View of the mobile home park from across West Holt Avenue, looking south.




        Vacant lot located on the western portion of the project site, looking south.



                                                 Site Photos

                                                                                  Figure 3b
                                                                               City of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS AFFECTED

The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project,
involving at least one impact that is "Potentially Significant" or "Potentially Significant Unless
Mitigation Incorporated" as indicated by the checklist on the following pages.

                                            Agriculture and Forest
      Aesthetics                                                          Air Quality
                                            Resources
      Biological Resources                  Cultural Resources            Geology/Soils
      Greenhouse Gas                        Hazards & Hazardous           Hydrology/Water
      Emissions                             Materials                     Quality
      Land Use/Planning                     Mineral Resources             Noise
      Population/Housing                    Public Services               Recreation
                                                                          Mandatory Findings of
      Transportation/Traffic                Utilities/Service Systems
                                                                          Significance




                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                     7
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


DETERMINATION:

On the basis of this initial evaluation:

    I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the environment,
    and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

    I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment,
    there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions in the project have been
    made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A MITIGATED NEGATIVE
    DECLARATION will be prepared.

    I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and an
    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.

    I find that the proposed project MAY have a "potentially significant impact" or "potentially
    significant unless mitigated" impact on the environment, but at least one effect (1) has been
    adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable legal standards, and (2)
    has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis as described on
    attached sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required, but it must analyze
    only the effects that remain to be addressed.

    I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment,
    because all potential significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an earlier EIR
    or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards, and (b) have been
    avoided or mitigated pursuant to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION, including
    revisions or mitigation measures that are imposed upon the proposed project, nothing
    further is required.




Signature                                                           Date




______________________________
Printed Name




                                                                                    City of Pomona
                                                 8
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST

                                                                Potentially
                                                                Significant
                                                 Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                 Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                   Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
I.   AESTHETICS ­ Would the project:
a) Have a substantial adverse effect on a
   scenic vista?
b) Substantially damage scenic resources,
   including, but not limited to, trees, rock
   outcroppings, and historic buildings within
   a state scenic highway?
c) Substantially degrade the existing visual
   character or quality of the site and its
   surroundings?
d) Create a new source of substantial light or
   glare which would adversely affect day or
   nighttime views in the area?

a) The project site is surrounded on all sides by existing commercial and residential
development. Because of topography, site location, adjacent residential and commercial
development, views into the site are generally limited to Holt Avenue in the immediate vicinity
of the proposed project. Views out of the site are also limited by the surrounding development.
Views of the surrounding hillsides and San Gabriel Mountains are available in the distance
from higher elevations. However, views of these scenic resources from and through the project
site are mostly obscured by the existing mobile home park. Furthermore, the City of Pomona
does not identify the project site as a scenic resource or as vantage point to view the scenic
vistas located north of the site. Therefore, no impact on scenic vistas would occur.

b) The project site is entirely surrounded by urban development and does not contain any
scenic resources, such as historic buildings or rock outcroppings. There are no state scenic
highways within the project area. No impact to scenic resources would occur.

c) Development in the project area consists of residential and commercial development.
Fronting West Holt Avenue, all of the surrounding properties are occupied by commercial
development, including restaurants, markets, and auto services. There are also single-family
residences to the south of the project site. The proposed project would replace the existing
residential development and vacant lots with a two- and three-story apartment complex. The
proposed project would be consistent with existing development patterns in the project area.
Because the project is located in an urban area, development of the vacant lots would make the
project site more consistent with the urban environment. Impacts would be less than
significant.

d) The project site is surrounded by commercial and residential development; therefore,
parking lot light fixtures, building mounted light fixtures and parked vehicles all contribute to
ambient light levels that are typical of an urban environment. At night, the project's interior and

                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                    9
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


exterior building lights and landscape lighting would likely be visible from the adjacent
residential dwellings, and to a lesser extent, from the surrounding public streets. The proposed
project's exterior light fixtures and low-level pedestrian lighting would have the potential to
cast light onto the ground surface and into the atmosphere. However, these light sources would
not have a significant impact on the night sky, as they would not exceed existing background
light levels already present. Therefore, impacts would be less than significant.

The proposed residential dwellings could potentially increase sources of glare, as residential
structures typically utilize some reflective materials (such as windows) on the building exterior.
In addition, vehicles parked on-site would increase the potential for reflected sunlight during
certain times of the day. However, the buildings would be set back from the street and on-site
landscaping and security fencing would further reduce glare generated by the proposed project.
The parking lot would also be located in the rear of the building, shielding reflections from
parked cars. Light and glare impacts would therefore be less than significant.

                                                                Potentially
                                                                Significant
                                                 Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                 Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                   Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
II. AGRICULTURE AND FOREST
    RESOURCES -- Would the project:
a) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique
   Farmland, Farmland of Statewide
   Importance (Farmland), as shown on the
   maps prepared pursuant to the Farmland
   Mapping and Monitoring Program of the
   California Resources Agency, to non-
   agricultural use?
b) Conflict with existing zoning for
   agricultural use, or a Williamson Act
   contract?
c) Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause
   rezoning of, forest land (as defined in
   Public Resources Code Section
   12220(g)), timberland (as defined by
   Public Resources Code Section 4526), or
   timberland zoned Timberland Production
   (as defined by Government Code Section
   51104(g))?
d) Result in the loss of forest land or
   conversion of forest land to non-forest
   use?
e) Involve other changes in the existing
   environment which, due to their location
   or nature, could result in conversion of
   Farmland, to non-agricultural use?




                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                   10
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


a) The project site has been previously disturbed and the surrounding areas are developed with
residential and commercial uses. Review of the Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program
(FMMP) maps prepared by the California Department of Conservation confirmed that neither
the project site nor adjacent land is designated Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or Farmland
of Statewide Importance by the FMMP (FMMP, 2010). No impact would occur.

b) The project site is zoned multi-family residential and is not enrolled in a Williamson Act
contract. The proposed project would not conflict with any zoning designations designed to
promote agriculture. Based upon a review of historical air photos, neither the project site nor
surrounding land has recently been used for agricultural production. No impact would occur.

c-e) Neither the site nor surrounding areas are used for timber production or agriculture. The
project would therefore not conflict with any zoning designations designed to preserve timber
or for agricultural resource preservation. No impact would occur.

                                                                 Potentially
                                                                 Significant
                                                  Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                  Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                    Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
III.   AIR QUALITY -- Would the project:
a) Conflict with or obstruct implementation of
   the applicable air quality plan?
b) Violate any air quality standard or
   contribute substantially to an existing or
   projected air quality violation?
c) Result in a cumulatively considerable net
   increase of any criteria pollutant for which
   the project region is non-attainment under
   an applicable federal or state ambient air
   quality standard (including releasing
   emissions which exceed quantitative
   thresholds for ozone precursors)?
d) Expose sensitive receptors to substantial
   pollutant concentrations?
e) Create objectionable odors affecting a
   substantial number of people?

The project site is located within the South Coast Air Basin, which is under the jurisdiction of
the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD). A significant adverse air quality
impact may occur when a project individually or cumulatively interferes with progress toward
the attainment of the ozone standard by generating emissions that equal or exceed the
established long term quantitative thresholds for pollutants, or exceed a state or federal ambient
air quality standard for any criteria pollutant. Table 1 shows the significance thresholds that
have been recommended by the SCAQMD for projects within the South Coast Air Basin.

The analysis of air quality impacts follows the methodologies recommended in the SCAQMD's
CEQA Air Quality Handbook (1993). The regional construction emissions associated with

                                                                                      City of Pomona
                                                   11
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


development of the proposed project were calculated using the CalEEMOD Version 2011.1.1
(2011) software. The construction emissions are analyzed using the regional thresholds
established by the SCAQMD and published in the CEQA Air Quality Handbook. The construction
activities associated with development would generate diesel emissions and dust. Construction
equipment that would generate criteria air pollutants includes excavators, graders, haul trucks,
and loaders. Some of this equipment would be used during both grading and construction. It is
assumed that all of the construction equipment used would be diesel-powered.

Operational emissions associated with onsite development were estimated using CalEEMOD
software and the information provided in the traffic study prepared by Linscott, Law &
Greenspan, Engineers (April 2013). Operational emissions would be comprised of mobile source
emissions, energy emissions, and area source emissions. Mobile source emissions are generated
by the increase in motor vehicle trips to and from the project site associated with operation of
onsite development. Emissions attributed to energy use include electricity and natural gas
consumption for space and water heating. Area source emissions are generated by landscape
maintenance equipment, consumer products and architectural coating.

To determine whether a significant regional air quality impact would occur, the increases in
emissions generated by the proposed project were compared to the SCAQMD's recommended
regional thresholds for both construction and operational emissions. A significant adverse air
quality impact may occur when a project individually or cumulatively interferes with progress
toward the attainment of the ozone standard by generating emissions that equal or exceed the
established long term quantitative thresholds for pollutants, or exceed a state or federal ambient
air quality standard for any criteria pollutant.

In addition to the thresholds shown in Table 1, the SCAQMD has developed Localized
Significance Thresholds (LSTs) in response to the Governing Board's Environmental Justice
Enhancement Initiative (1-4), which was prepared to update the CEQA Air Quality Handbook.
LSTs were devised in response to concern regarding exposure of individuals to criteria
pollutants in local communities. LSTs represent the maximum emissions from a project that
would not cause or contribute to an air quality exceedance of the most stringent applicable
federal or state ambient air quality standard at the nearest sensitive receptor, taking into
consideration ambient concentrations in each source receptor area (SRA), project size, and
distance to the sensitive receptor. However, LSTs only apply to emissions within a fixed
stationary location, including idling emissions during both project construction and operation.
LSTs have been developed for NOX, CO, PM10, and PM2.5. LSTs are not applicable to mobile
sources, such as cars on a roadway (SCAQMD, July 2008). As such, LSTs for operational
emissions do not apply to on-site development, as the majority of operational emissions would
be generated by cars on the roadways.

LSTs have been developed for emissions within construction areas up to five acres in size. The
SCAQMD provides lookup tables for project sites that measure one, two, or five acres. The three
parcels encompassing project site total approximately 2.5 acres. Therefore this analysis uses the
five acre LSTs. According to the SCAQMD's publication, Final Localized Significant Thresholds
Methodology, the use of LSTs is voluntary, to be implemented at the discretion of local agencies.
LSTs for construction on a five-acre site in are shown in Table 2 at various distances from



                                                                                    City of Pomona
                                                 12
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


sensitive receptors. The City of Pomona falls under Source Receptor Area (SRA) 10; therefore,
the LST thresholds shown in Table 2 correspond to this SRA area.

                                                       Table 1
                                      SCAQMD Air Quality Significance Thresholds
                                                          Mass Daily Thresholds
                     Pollutant                             Construction                                 Operation
                        NOx                                  100 lbs/day                                55 lbs/day
                        VOC                                   75 lbs/day                                55 lbs/day
                        PM10                                 150 lbs/day                                150 lbs/day
                       PM2.5                                  55 lbs/day                                55 lbs/day
                        SOx                                  150 lbs/day                                150 lbs/day
                         CO                                  550 lbs/day                                550 lbs/day

                        Lead                                  3 lbs/day                                  3 lbs/day
                                        Toxic Air Contaminants (TACs) and Odor Thresholds
                        TACs                               Maximum Incremental Cancer Risk  10 in 1 million
               (including carcinogens               Cancer Burden >0.5 excess cancer cases (in areas  1 in 1 million)
               and non-carcinogens)                             Hazard Index  1.0 (project increment)
                        Odor                          Project creates an odor nuisance pursuant to SCAQMD Rule 402
                                                                                                a
                                              Ambient Air Quality for Criteria Pollutants
                        NO2                            SCAQMD is in attainment; project is significant if it causes or
                                                    contributes to an exceedance of the following attainment standards:
                  1-hour average                                             0.18 ppm (state)
               annual arithmetic mean                            0.03 ppm (state) and 0.0534 ppm (federal)
                       PM10
                                                              3                                     b                3
                  24-hour average                  10.4 g/m (recommended for construction)              & 2.5 g/m (operation)
                                                                                     3
                  annual average                                            1.0 g/m
                        SO2
                                                                                                            th
                   1-hr average                            0.25 ppm (state) & 0.075 ppm (federal ­ 99 percentile)
                   24-hr average                                              0.04 ppm (state)
                      Sulfate
                                                                                          3
                  24-hour average                                                25 ug/m (state)
                         CO                            SCAQMD is in attainment; project is significant if it causes or
                                                    contributes to an exceedance of the following attainment standards:
                   1-hour average                                             20 ppm (state)
                   8-hour average                                         9.0 ppm (state/federal)
                         Lead
                                                                                          3
                    30-day average                                               1.5 ug/m (state)
                                                                                         3
               Rolling 3-month average                                         0.15 ug/m (federal)
                                                                                        3
                  Quarterly average                                             1.5 ug/m (federal)
    a
        Ambient air quality thresholds for criteria pollutants based on SCAQMD Rule 1303, unless otherwise stated.
    b
        Ambient air quality threshold based on SCAQMD Rule 403.
        KEY: lbs/day = pounds per   ppm = parts per         ug/m3 = microgram per cubic                   greater than or equal
             day                    million                 meter                                        to
     Source: SCAQMD, Revised March 2011, http://www.aqmd.gov/ceqa/hdbk.html


                                                                                                                 City of Pomona
                                                                  13
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                          Table 2
                    SCAQMD Local Significance Thresholds for Construction

                                    Allowable emissions as a function of receptor distance in feet
                                                   from a five-acre site (lbs/day)
           Pollutant
                                                                 100           200
                                    25 Meters    50 Meters                                500 Meters
                                                                Meters        Meters

           Gradual conversion of
                                       236          265           226           330           381
           NOx to NO2

           CO                         1,556        2,158         3,691         7,011        23,450

           PM10                         12          36            51            82            175

           PM2.5                        7            9            15            28            93

           Source: SCAQMD, October 2009, http://www.aqmd.gov/CEQA/handbook/LST/appC.pdf, accessed
           online April 2013.


a) According to SCAQMD Guidelines, to be consistent with the Air Quality Management Plan
(AQMP) (2012), a project must conform to the local General Plan and must not result in or
contribute to an exceedance of the City's projected population growth forecast. According to the
Southern California Association of Governments (SCAG), the current population of Pomona is
149,058 (SCAG, 2011). SCAG estimates the population of Pomona will continue to grow to
168,500 persons by the year 2020 and 197,400 persons by the year 2035 (SCAG, 2012). Based
upon California Department of Finance (DOF) data (2012), the average household size in
Pomona is 3.78 persons per household. Therefore, the proposed project's estimated increase in
population would be 234 persons, which equates to approximately 1.2% of Pomona's estimated
population growth through the year 2020. Therefore, the project would not contribute to an
exceedance of the City's projected population growth forecast. The project's potential impact
with respect to regional air quality management plans would be less than significant.

b-c) The proposed project would generate temporary air pollutant emissions during
construction and long-term operational emissions due to energy use. Both construction and
operational emissions associated with the proposed project are discussed below.

Construction Emissions
Construction vehicles and equipment traveling along unpaved roads, grading, trenching, and
stockpiled soils have the potential to generate fugitive dust (PM10 and PM2.5) through the
exposure of soil to wind erosion and dust entrainment. In addition, exhaust emissions
associated with the operation of heavy construction equipment could potentially degrade local
air quality. Project-related construction activities would also emit ozone precursors (oxides of
nitrogen (NOX), reactive organic gases (ROG)) as well as carbon monoxide (CO). The majority of
construction-related emissions would result from site preparation and grading due to the use of
heavy duty construction equipment. Air pollutants would also be emitted during building
construction due to the evaporation of ROGs during the application of architectural coatings
(paint) to the building exteriors.


                                                                                                    City of Pomona
                                                         14
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


CalEEMod calculates construction emissions during the various phases of project construction,
including demolition, building construction, site preparation, grading, paving, and architectural
coating. As indicated in Table 3, maximum daily emissions from construction activities would
not exceed SCAQMD construction thresholds for any of the criteria air pollutants. Therefore,
construction impacts would be less than significant.

                                        Table 3
              Estimated Maximum Unmitigated Construction Emissions (lbs/day)
                                                                                                          2
                                                                Unmitigated Air Emissions (lbs/day)

                                                        ROG          NOx             CO           PM10        PM2.5

         Overall Construction Maximum Daily
                   1                                    48.95       41.43           26.06          8.63       5.26
         Emissions
         SCAQMD Pollutant Thresholds                      75         100            550            150          55

         Threshold Exceeded?                             No           No             No            No          No

         Source: CalEEMod calculations, see Appendix A.
         1. Maximum daily emissions account for the overlap of construction phases. These values represent the
            worse-case scenario. Maximum daily emissions would not occur each day of the construction period.
         2. The season with the highest emissions calculated for each pollutant was used. Winter emissions were
            used for all pollutants.


Operational Emissions
Long-term operational emissions associated with the proposed project are those attributed to
vehicle trips (mobile emissions), the use of natural gas (energy emissions), consumer products,
architectural coatings, and landscaping equipment (area emissions). CalEEMod was used to
calculate emissions based on the land uses for the proposed project and the number of vehicle trips
generated by development. As shown in Table 4, overall emissions would not exceed SCAQMD
operational thresholds. Therefore, operational impacts associated with the proposed project
would be less than significant.


                                             Table 4
                             Estimated Operational Emissions (lbs/day)

          Emission Source                    ROG            NOx              CO             PM10          PM2.5

          Area                               8.14           0.37            25.86           3.31          3.31

          Energy                             0.04           0.30            0.13            0.02          0.02

          Mobile                             2.35           5.79            22.21           4.09          0.26

          Total Emissions                    10.53          6.46            48.20           7.42          3.59

          SCAQMD Thresholds                   55               55           550             150            55

          Exceeds Threshold?                  No               No            No             No             No

          Source: CalEEMod calculations, see Appendix A.



                                                                                                              City of Pomona
                                                               15
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


d) Table 5 compares the project's estimated on-site construction emissions to the SCAQMD's
LSTs. The nearest sensitive receptors with respect to the LSTs are the residences located directly
south of the project site. Single-family residential dwellings are located within 15 feet of the
proposed grading boundary. Therefore, LSTs were evaluated using a distance of 25 meters, or
82 feet. The thresholds are relative only to those emissions that occur within a five-acre area,
such as onsite grading emissions or stationary source emissions, and do not apply to offsite
mobile emissions. Emissions generated by the proposed project during construction would not
exceed LSTs during any phase of construction. Impacts to nearby sensitive receptors would
therefore be less than significant.

                                           Table 5
               Total On-Site Construction Criteria Pollutant Emissions (lbs/day)
                       Compared to Localized Significance Thresholds

                                                         CO          NOx          PM10          PM2.5

           Demolition                                   23.67        38.45          3.4          2.29

           Site Preparation                             18.00        34.71         3.24          1.65

           Grading                                      22.15        37.12         8.49          5.25

           Building                                     19.52        28.63         1.88          1.88

           Paving                                       16.67        24.53         2.05          2.05

           Architectural Coating                        1.92          2.77         0.24          0.24

           Localized Significance Threshold             1,556         236           12            7

           Threshold Exceeded?                           No           No            No           No
           Source: SCAQMD, October 2009, http://www.aqmd.gov/CEQA/handbook/LST/appC.pdf, accessed online
           June 2012, and CalEEMod calculations, see Appendix A.


e) The proposed project would be used for residential purposes and would not generate
objectionable odors. No impact related to odors would occur.

                                                                      Potentially
                                                                      Significant
                                                     Potentially        Unless            Less than
                                                     Significant       Mitigation         Significant        No
                                                       Impact        Incorporated           Impact         Impact
IV.   BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES --
      Would the project:
a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either
   directly or through habitat modifications,
   on any species identified as a candidate,
   sensitive, or special status species in local
   or regional plans, policies, or regulations,
   or by the California Department of Fish
   and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife
   Service?
b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any

                                                                                                   City of Pomona
                                                        16
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                   Potentially
                                                                   Significant
                                                    Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                    Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                      Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
IV.     BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES --
        Would the project:
      riparian habitat or other sensitive natural
      community identified in local or regional
      plans, policies, or regulations, or by the
      California Department of Fish and Game
      or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service?
c) Have a substantial adverse effect on
   federally protected wetlands as defined by
   Section 404 of the Clean Water Act
   (including, but not limited to, marsh,
   vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through direct
   removal, filling, hydrological interruption,
   or other means?
d) Interfere substantially with the movement
   of any native resident or migratory fish or
   wildlife species or with established native
   resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or
   impede the use of native wildlife nursery
   sites?
e) Conflict with any local policies or
   ordinances protecting biological
   resources, such as a tree preservation
   policy or ordinance?
f)    Conflict with the provisions of an adopted
      Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural
      Community Conservation Plan, or other
      approved local, regional, or state habitat
      conservation plan?

a) A search of the California Natural Diversity Database (CNDDB) determined that there are
five sensitive plant species and four sensitive animal species within a two-mile radius of the
project site. Figure 4 shows the locations of sensitive elements and critical habitat in the project
area.

The sensitive plant species include: intermediate mariposa-lily (Calochortus weedii var.
intermedius), many-stemmed dudleya (Dudleya multicaulis), mesa horkelia (Horkelia cuneata var.
puberula), Robinson's pepper-grass (Lepidium virginicum var. robinsonii), and San Bernadino aster
(Symphyotrichum defoliatum). None of the plants have a federal or state listing status (CDFW,
2013). The California Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) rank is either 1b.1 or 1b.2 for
each plant species, which indicates that they are all rare or endangered in California and
elsewhere. However, the project site is currently developed with a mobile home park and the
vacant portions of the site are highly disturbed. The project site is surrounded by urban uses,
primarily consisting of paved surfaces. In addition, there have been no recorded sitings of these


                                                                                          City of Pomona
                                                      17
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


species on the project site. As such, the project site would not provide suitable habitat for
sensitive plant species. Impacts to sensitive plant species would be less than significant.

The sensitive animal species in the project area include: big free-tailed bat (Nyctinomops
macrotis), coastal California gnatcatcher (Polioptila californica californica), western mastiff bat
(Eumops perotis californicus), and western yellow bat (Lasiurus xanthinus). All of the sensitive
animal species within the project area are listed as CDFW species of special concern (CDFW,
2011). None of the species have state or federal listing status, except the coastal California
gnatcatcher is federally listed as threatened (CDFW, 2011). As shown in Figure 4, no sightings

of sensitive species have been reported on the project site. Suitable habitat for the big free-tailed
bat and the western mastiff bat is not present on-site, as the big free-tailed bat prefers arid, high-
relief landscapes and the western mastiff bat typically roosts in crevices in vertical cliffs, high
buildings, trees, and tunnels (Bolster, 1998 and CDFW, 1995). However, the western yellow bat
is believed to be expanding its range with the increased usage of ornamental palms in
landscaping (Bolster, 1998). To ensure that roosting habitat for western yellow bats would not
be disturbed during construction of the proposed project, Mitigation Measure BIO-2 would be
required. While sensitive bird species are not known to be present on-site, Mitigation Measure
BIO-1 would further ensure that impacts would be less than significant. With the
implementation of Mitigation Measures BIO-1 and BIO-2, impacts to sensitive animal
species would be less than significant.

b, c) The project site is currently developed with a mobile home park and the vacant portions of
the site are highly disturbed. The proposed project is located in an urban/developed area and
there are no riparian habitats, sensitive communities, or wetlands on-site or in the project
vicinity (USFWS, 2013). As such, there would be no habitat or wetlands impacts.

d) The site is not located within a known migration corridor or native wildlife nursery. The
project site is currently developed with a mobile home park and the vacant portions of the site
are highly disturbed. Due to the urban nature of the site, little local movement is expected to
occur through the project site except for nesting or foraging birds and small reptile and
mammal (rodent) species. Because there are some trees and shrubs on-site that could provide
habitat for nesting birds, Mitigation Measure BIO-1 would be required. With the
implementation of Mitigation Measure BIO-1, impacts to nesting birds would be less than
significant.

        BIO-1        Nesting Birds. If vegetation clearing, demolition, or other project
                     construction is to be initiated during the bird breeding season
                     (February 1 through August 31), pre-construction/grading surveys
                     shall be conducted by a qualified biologist. Surveys shall be
                     conducted no more than three days prior to the initiation of
                     clearance/construction work. If a special-status species is located
                     during the survey, consultation with the local CDFG representative
                     shall occur to determine what avoidance actions may be taken. If any
                     active non-raptor bird nests are found, the tree(s) containing the nest(s)
                     shall be kept in place until the nest becomes inactive (vacated). If any
                     active raptor bird nests are found, the tree(s) containing the nest(s)


                                                                                        City of Pomona
                                                   18
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                                  8




                                        2

                                    4




                          4
                   2


             4




                                               5 6   7      9
                                                                      _
                                                                      ^         1




                                                                                              8




         4
         3




Basemap Sources: Esri, DeLorme, NAVTEQ, USGS, Intermap, iPC, NRCAN, Esri
Japan, METI, Esri China (Hong Kong), Esri (Thailand), TomTom, 2012 California
Natural Diversity Database, March, 2013. Critical habitat shown is that most
recently available from U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, March 2013.

                                                         1 - big free-tailed bat
                 _
                 ^     Project Location
                                                         2 - coastal California gnatcatcher




                 CNDDB
                        2 Mile Buffer

                 Critical Habitat
                       CA Gnatcatcher FCH (12/19/2007)
                                                         3 - intermediate mariposa-lily
                                                         4 - many-stemmed dudleya
                                                         5 - mesa horkelia
                                                         6 - Robinson's pepper-grass
                                                         7 - San Bernardino aster                 0
                                                                                                      ±   3,500 Feet
                       Plants                            8 - western mastiff bat
                       Animals                           9 - western yellow bat


                              Sensitive Elements and Critical Habitat Reported
                                by the California Natural Diversity Database
                                           Within a 2-Mile Radius                                                 Figure 4
                                                                                                            Ctiy of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


                      shall be kept in place until the nest becomes inactive (vacated). To
                      the extent determined necessary by the qualified biologist, limits of
                      construction shall be established around the trees containing any
                      active nests. The limits of construction to avoid a nest shall be
                      established in the field with flagging and stakes or construction
                      fencing. Encroachment into buffers around active nests must be
                      conducted at the discretion of a qualified biologist. Construction
                      personnel shall be instructed on the sensitivity of the area by a
                      qualified biologist hired by the project proponent and endorsed by
                      the City of Pomona's Planning Department. The applicant shall
                      record the results of the recommended protective measures
                      described above to document compliance with applicable State and
                      federal laws pertaining to the protection of nesting birds.

        BIO-2        Visual Inspection for Bats. Prior to demolition or construction
                     activities, a qualified biologist shall conduct a survey of palm trees on
                     the project site for western yellow bats. If bat species are identified as
                     roosting in areas that will be impacted, prior to construction, the
                     applicant shall prepare a plan to exclude bat species from impact area.
                     If bats cannot be excluded from bat roosts, work activities will be
                     avoided within 100 feet of active maternity roosts until bat pups have
                     been weaned and are deemed independent by a qualified biologist.
                     CDFW will be contacted for additional guidance if roosting bats are
                     observed within the project area during construction.

e, f) The proposed project would not conflict with any local policies or ordinances protecting
biological resources, and the project site is not within any habitat conservation plans or any
other regional planning areas. Therefore, no impact would occur.

                                                                 Potentially
                                                                 Significant
                                                  Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                  Significant     Mitigation   Significant      No
                                                    Impact      Incorporated     Impact       Impact
V.    CULTURAL RESOURCES --
      Would the project:
a) Cause a substantial adverse change in
   the significance of a historical resource as
   defined in §15064.5?
b) Cause a substantial adverse change in
   the significance of an archaeological
   resource as defined in §15064.5?
c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique
   paleontological resource or site or unique
   geologic feature?
d) Disturb any human remains, including
   those interred outside of formal
   cemeteries?

                                                                                        City of Pomona
                                                    20
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


a) No portion of the project site is not listed in the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP),
the California Register of Historical Resources (CRHR), or as a locally significant property in the
City of Pomona. The property at 934 W. Holt Avenue is occupied by a circa 1885 residence and
a trailer court established during the 1940s. Because of the age of these facilities, a historic
resources report was prepared to determine whether they are eligible for national, state, or local
listing as historic resources. The findings of that report, prepared by San Buenaventura
Research Associates and included in Appendix B, are summarized below.

The property consists of a several buildings, including a wood frame residence, two stucco-clad
commercial buildings, and two additional residences. The balance of the site is a trailer park
featuring older trailer coaches organized around an internal driveway loop. The original owner
of this property is not currently known, though it is likely that much of its current appearance is
the result of alterations made circa 1947 when the property was converted to a trailer court by
the Richter family.

NRHP and CRHR Eligibility
This property does not appear to be closely associated with any historical event. Residence 1
(constructed circa 1885) is no longer representative of the early settlement of Pomona during the
1880s due to the extensive alterations that occurred to the building, primarily after circa 1947
when the property was converted to a trailer court. It is generally representative of the
evolution of this section of W. Holt Avenue to automobile-oriented businesses during the
postwar era, but it does not appear to have played any notable role in this transition (NRHP
Criterion A and CRHR Criterion 1). The property was owned from circa 1945 through at least
the mid-1970s by the Richter family. Harold F. Richter was an active member of the Pomona
community but he does not appear to have lived on this property for more than a short time
near the end of his life (NRHP Criterion B and CRHR Criterion 2). None of the extant buildings
on the property are representative examples of an architectural style or type of construction
(NRHP Criterion C and CRHR Criterion 3). The circa 1885 residence is a highly altered example
of a Folk Victorian house and the other buildings on the property are extensively altered.

Local Significance and Eligibility
City of Pomona Historic Landmark Designation Criteria (Pomona City Code, §5809-13 D) are
discussed below.

Criterion 1: This property does not appear to "exemplif[y] or reflect[s] special elements of the
City of Pomona's cultural, social, economic, political, aesthetic, engineering, architectural, or
natural history." The property is a combination of a highly altered example of a circa 1885
residence, and a typical example of automobile-oriented postwar development from the late
1940s.

Criterion 2: It does not appear to be "identified with persons or events significant in local, state,
or national history." The original owner is not currently known. Harold Richter appears to have
been somewhat active in community affairs, but not to a significant extent. His association with
the property also appears to be somewhat tenuous, as he seems to have lived elsewhere while
managing the trailer court, at least into the 1960s.



                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                 21
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


Criterion 3: The property does not "embod[y] distinctive characteristics of a style, type, period,
or method of construction, or is a valuable example of the use of indigenous materials or
craftsmanship." The buildings on the property are a highly altered example of a circa 1885
residence, and a typical example of automobile-oriented postwar development from the late
1940s.

Criterion 4: The property does not "contribute[s] to the significance of a historic area, being a
geographically definable area possessing a concentration of historic or scenic properties or
thematically related grouping of properties which contribute to each other and are unified
aesthetically by plan or physical development." This property does not appear to have the
ability to contribute to the formation of a historic district in this area.

Criterion 5: The property does not appear to be "the work of a notable building, designer,
landscape designer, or architect." Building permits for this property were not available for
examination but it appears unlikely that a known or notable designer was responsible for any of
the buildings on the property.

Criterion 6: The property does not represent "a unique location or singular physical
characteristics or is a view or vista representing an established and familiar visual feature of a
neighborhood, community, or the City of Pomona." It is one of numerous examples of its type
in the City.

Criterion 7: The property does not "embod[y] elements of architectural design, detail, materials,
or craftsmanship that represent a significant structural or architectural achievement or
innovation." The buildings on the property are a highly altered example of a circa 1885
residence, and a typical example of automobile-oriented postwar development from the late
1940s.

Criterion 8: The property does not appear to be "similar to other distinctive properties, sites,
areas, or objects based on a historic, cultural, or architectural motif." This and other commercial
arterials in Pomona were recently evaluated citywide as part of the Corridors Specific Plan. The
historic resources evaluation associated with this planning effort did not identify this property
as significant or eligible.

Criterion 9: The property does not appear to "reflect[s] significant geographical patterns,
including those associated with different eras of settlement and growth, particular
transportation modes, or distinctive examples of park or community planning." The buildings
on the property are a highly altered example of a circa 1885 residence, and a typical example of
automobile-oriented postwar development from the late 1940s.

Criterion 10: The property does not appear to be "one of the few remaining examples in the
City of Pomona, region, state, or nation possessing distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural or historical type or specimen." The property is a combination of a highly altered
example of a circa 1885 residence, and a typical example of automobile-oriented postwar
development from the late 1940s.

Based on the above, there would be no impact to historic resources.

                                                                                      City of Pomona
                                                 22
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


b, c) There are no notable geologic features on-site. A portion of the project site is currently
developed and the vacant portions were previously developed with residences. Due to existing
and recent development on the project site, unique archaeological or paleontological resources
are not anticipated. In addition, the project site is predominantly flat and would not require
substantial grading or excavation that would disturb subsurface materials. Nevertheless, project
construction has the potential to disturb undiscovered resources during grading. This is a
potentially significant impact unless mitigation is incorporated. Impacts would be less than
significant after implementation of Mitigation Measure CR-1.

        CR-1 Archaeological Assessment and Remediation. If unanticipated
             archaeological or paleontological resource remains are encountered
             during construction activities (any permitted action requiring physical
             digging or grading of a project area using mechanical equipment or hand
             tools, including core sampling, soil borings, work required for placing
             caissons or footings, planting trees, disking, grubbing, trenching and
             installation of poles, underground electrical systems, sewers, water
             mains, or other utilities, or geological/ geotechnical testing) work shall
             cease until the nature, extent, and possible significance of any cultural
             remains can be assessed and, if found to be significant pursuant to
             Section 15064.5 of the California Code of Regulations (CEQA Guidelines),
             remediated. Such assessment and remediation shall be implemented by
             the City through consultation with a qualified cultural resources
             professional prior to recommencement with onsite construction/grading
             activities. If remediation is necessary, possible techniques include
             removal, documentation, curation, or avoidance of the resource,
             depending upon the nature of the find. Cultural resource remains may
             include artifacts, shell, bone, features, foundations, trash pits and privies,
             etc.

d) There is no evidence of human remains on-site. Nevertheless, the proposed project could
have the potential to disturb undiscovered human remains. The California Health and Safety
Code §7050.5, Public Resources Code § 5097.98, and § 15064.5 of the California Code of
Regulations (CEQA Guidelines) mandate procedures to be followed, including that, if human
remains are encountered during excavation, all work must halt, and the County Coroner must
be notified (Section 7050.5 of the California Health and Safety Code). The coroner will
determine whether the remains are of forensic interest. If the coroner, with the aid of the
supervising archaeologist, determines that the remains are prehistoric, the coroner will contact
the Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC). The NAHC will be responsible for
designating the most likely descendant (MLD) responsible for the ultimate disposition of the
remains, as required by Section 5097.98 of the Public Resources Code. The MLD should make
his/her recommendations within 48 hours of their notification by the NAHC. This
recommendation may include A) the non-destructive removal and analysis of human remains
and items associated with Native American human remains; (B) preservation of Native
American human remains and associated items in place; (C) relinquishment of Native American
human remains and associated items to the descendants for treatment; or (D) other culturally
appropriate treatment. Section 7052 of the Health & Safety Code also states that disturbance of



                                                                                     City of Pomona
                                                 23
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


Native American cemeteries is a felony. With adherence to these existing regulations, impacts
would be less than significant.

                                                                    Potentially
                                                                    Significant
                                                     Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                     Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                       Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
VI.         GEOLOGY AND SOILS ­
            Would the project:
a) Expose people or structures to potential
   substantial adverse effects, including the
   risk of loss, injury, or death involving:
      i)     Rupture of a known earthquake fault,
             as delineated on the most recent
             Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault
             Zoning Map issued by the State
             Geologist for the area or based on
             other substantial evidence of a known
             fault?


      ii)    Strong seismic ground shaking?
      iii) Seismic-related ground failure,
           including liquefaction?
      iv) Landslides?
b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the
   loss of topsoil?
c) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is
   unstable as a result of the project, and
   potentially result in on- or off-site
   landslide, lateral spreading, subsidence,
   liquefaction, or collapse?
d) Be located on expansive soil, as defined
   in Table 1-B of the Uniform Building Code,
   creating substantial risks to life or
   property?
e) Have soils incapable of adequately
   supporting the use of septic tanks or
   alternative wastewater disposal systems
   where sewers are not available for the
   disposal of wastewater?

a(i-iv)) The project site is not located within the boundaries of a Seismic Hazard Zone as defined
by the Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning Act of 1972 (California Geological Survey, 1999).
The project site does not contain areas subject to liquefaction or earthquake induced landslides
as shown on the State of California Seismic Hazards Zone Map for the San Dimas Quadrangle
(California Geological Survey, 1999). Impacts would be less than significant.



                                                                                           City of Pomona
                                                       24
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


The project site is situated in a seismically active area that has historically been affected by
generally moderate to occasionally high levels of ground motion. In addition, the site lies in
relative close proximity to the following active faults, defined as having Holocene fault
displacement (during the past 11,700 years):

        San Andreas fault, 20 miles northwest of the project site
        Whittier Fault, 8.5 miles southwest of the project site
        Chino Fault, 6.0 miles south of the project site
        Raymond Fault, 15.5 miles west of the project site

There are severally potentially active faults, defined as having late Quarternary fault
displacement (during the past 700,000 years), in the area. These include:

        San Jose Fault, 0.25 miles north of the project site
        Central Avenue Fault, 2.25 miles south of the project site
        Sierra Madre Fault Zone, 2.0 miles north of the project site

Therefore, during the life of the proposed improvements, the property will probably experience
similar moderate to occasionally high ground shaking from these fault zones, as well as some
background shaking from other seismically active areas of the Southern California region.
However, the design and construction in accordance with the current California Building Code
(CBC) requirements would address issues related to potential ground shaking. Impacts would
be less than significant.

b) The project site is generally flat and located in an urban area that is developed and/or highly
disturbed. Therefore, soils on-site would have a relatively low risk of erosion. Nevertheless, site
development would be larger than one acre; therefore, the proposed project would be required
to obtain a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. A Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) would also be required to address erosion and discharge
impacts associated with the proposed onsite grading. For additional information, see Section IX,
Hydrology and Water Quality. As the proposed project would be required to adhere to the
City's grading requirements, obtain an NPDES permit, and prepare an SWPPP, soil erosion
hazard impacts would be less than significant.

c, d) Settlement and expansive soils are identified as potential hazards within the City (Pomona
General Plan, 1976). Soils in the project area consist of unconsolidated alluvium (medium
grain), which could susceptible to soil instability issues. Although subsidence generally occurs
slowly enough that its effects are not dangerous to inhabitants, it can cause substantial building
damage over time. In addition, the presence of expansive soils would require proper
engineering controls to ensure the safety of structures and inhabitants. The site-specific stability
of underlying soils is unknown. Should unstable soils exist, proper engineering controls would
need to be implemented to ensure the safety of structures and inhabitants. Impacts to soil
stability would be potentially significant, but mitigable. Implementation of Mitigation
Measure GEO-1 would be required to reduce impacts to a less than significant level.

        GEO-1        Geotechnical Study and Hazard Minimization. Prior to site
                     development, a geotechnical study shall be prepared by a registered

                                                                                      City of Pomona
                                                 25
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


                     civil or geotechnical engineer and reviewed by the City. This report
                     shall include an analysis of the subsidence, settlement, and expansive
                     potential of the underlying materials. If the proposed project is
                     confirmed to be in an area prone to subsidence, settlement, or
                     expansive soils, appropriate techniques to minimize hazards shall be
                     prescribed and implemented. Suitable measures to reduce ground-
                     failure impacts could include, but are not limited to, the following:

                          Design of foundations by a structural engineer to address any identified
                          geotechnical hazards.
                          Removal or treatment of expansive soils
                          In-situ densification of soils
                          Replacement or recompaction of soils, or
                          Other alterations to the ground characteristics.

Seismic hazards cannot be completely eliminated even with site-specific geotechnical investigation
and advanced building practices described above. However, the building and design practices
described above would reduce the potential hazards associated with seismic activity to a less-than-
significant level.

e) The proposed project does not include any improvements that would require the use of septic
systems. Sewers are proposed to dispose of wastewater from the proposed project. Therefore,
no impact would occur.

                                                                  Potentially
                                                                  Significant
                                                  Potentially       Unless        Less than
                                                  Significant      Mitigation     Significant      No
                                                    Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact
VII.   GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS -
       Would the project:
a) Generate greenhouse gas emissions,
   either directly or indirectly, that may have
   a significant impact on the environment?
b) Conflict with any applicable plan, policy,
   or regulation adopted for the purpose of
   reducing the emissions of greenhouse
   gases?


Gases that trap heat in the atmosphere are often called greenhouse gases (GHGs), analogous to the
way in which a greenhouse retains heat. Common GHG include water vapor, carbon dioxide
(CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxides (N2Ox), fluorinated gases, and ozone. GHGs are emitted by
both natural processes and human activities. Of these gases, CO2 and CH4 are emitted in the
greatest quantities from human activities. Emissions of CO2 are largely by-products of fossil fuel
combustion, whereas CH4 results from off-gassing associated with agricultural practices and
landfills. Man-made GHGs, many of which have greater heat-absorption potential than CO2,



                                                                                            City of Pomona
                                                     26
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


include fluorinated gases, such as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFC), and sulfur
hexafluoride (SF6) (Cal EPA, 2006).

The accumulation of GHGs in the atmosphere regulates the earth's temperature. Without the
natural heat trapping effect of GHGs, Earth's surface would be about 34° C cooler (Cal EPA, 2006).
However, it is believed that emissions from human activities, particularly the consumption of fossil
fuels for electricity production and transportation, have elevated the concentration of these gases in
the atmosphere beyond the level of naturally occurring concentrations.

Pursuant to the requirements of SB 97, the Resources Agency adopted amendments to the CEQA
Guidelines for the feasible mitigation of GHG emissions and analysis of the effects of GHG
emissions. The adopted CEQA Guidelines provide regulatory guidance on the analysis and
mitigation of GHG emissions in CEQA documents, while giving lead agencies the discretion to
set quantitative or qualitative thresholds for the assessment and mitigation of GHGs and
climate change impacts. The SCAQMD is considering a tiered approach with locally adopted
GHG reduction plans followed by GHG threshold values set to capture 90 percent of project
GHG emissions by project type. SCAQMD's current proposed threshold is 3,000 metric tons
CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) per year (SCAQMD, "Proposed Tier 3 Screening Levels ­
Residential/Commercial Projects, September 2008). For the purposes of this analysis, the City of
Pomona will use the 3,000 metric tons per year threshold to determine if the proposed project's
contribution to cumulative impacts would be considered significant.

Construction and operation of the proposed project would generate air pollutant emissions that
have the potential generate GHG emissions through the burning of fossil fuels or other
emissions of GHGs, thus potentially contributing to cumulative impacts related to global
climate change. Emissions associated with the project's construction period and long term
operational emissions were estimated using the California Emissions Estimator Model
(CalEEMod) computer program. Complete CalEEMod results and assumptions can be viewed
in Appendix A.

a) The proposed project's construction activities, energy use, daily operational activities, and
mobile sources (traffic) would generate quantities of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The
California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod) was used to calculate emissions resulting
from project construction and long-term operation. The project-related construction emissions
are confined to a relatively short period of time in relation to the overall life of the proposed
project. Therefore, the construction GHG emissions were amortized over a 30-year period to
determine the annual construction-related GHG emissions over the life of the project. As shown
in Table 6, the combined annual GHG emissions associated with the proposed project would be
837.51 metric tons CO2e. This is less than the proposed SCAQMD threshold of 3,000 metric tons per
year. Therefore, impacts from GHG emissions would be less than significant




                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                 27
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                              Table 6
                             Estimated Emissions of Greenhouse Gases

                                                                         Annual Emissions
                             Emission Source
                                                                         (metric tons CDE)

                      Construction (amortized over 30
                                                                               15.25
                                  years)

                           Operational and Mobile                             822.26
                                    Total                                     837.51
                    Sources: Emissions reported are from CalEEMod unmitigated construction and
                    operational data.California Climate Action Registry General Reporting Protocol,
                    Reporting Entity-Wide Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Version 3.1,January 2009, page
                    41-48. See Appendix A for calculations.


b) In April 2012, the South Coast Association of Government (SCAG) adopted the 2012-2035
Regional Transportation Plan/Sustainable Communities Strategy (RTP/SCS). SCAG's RTP/SCS
includes a strong commitment to reduce emissions from transportation sources by promoting
compact and infill development. A goal of the SCS is to "promote the development of better
places to live and work through measures that encourage more compact development, varied
housing options, bike and pedestrian improvements, and efficient transportation
infrastructure." The proposed project would be infill development that would also be located
within walking distance of commercial retail, civic, and recreational uses, thereby reducing
vehicle trips. It would also be consistent with the SCS goal of "creating more compact
neighborhoods and place everyday destinations closer to homes and closer to one another." The
proposed project is also consistent with energy efficiency measures because it would comply
with Title 24, the California Building Energy Efficiency Program. As discussed above and in
Tables 7 and 8, below, the proposed project would not conflict with any applicable plan, policy,
or regulation adopted for the purpose of reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases. Impacts
would be less than significant.

                                             Table 7
                            Project Consistency with 2006 CAT Report
                          Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Strategies
                       Strategy                                                   Project Consistency
California Air Resources Board
Vehicle Climate Change Standards                                Consistent
AB 143 (Pavley) required the state to develop and adopt         The vehicles that travel to and from the project site on
regulations that achieve the maximum feasible and cost-         public roadways would be in compliance with ARB
effective reduction of climate change emissions emitted         vehicle standards that are in effect at the time of vehicle
by passenger vehicles and light duty trucks. Regulations        purchase.
were adopted by the ARB I September 2004.
Diesel Anti-Idling                                              Consistent
In July 2004, the ARB adopted a measure to limit diesel-        Current state law restricts diesel truck idling to five
fueled commercial motor vehicle idling                          minutes or less. Diesel trucks operating on the project
                                                                site during construction are subject to this statewide law.




                                                                                                           City of Pomona
                                                           28
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                              Table 7
                             Project Consistency with 2006 CAT Report
                           Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Strategies
                         Strategy                                                     Project Consistency
Alternative Fuels: Biodiesel Blends                                Consistent
ARB would develop regulations to require the use of 1 to           The ARB is in the process of developing regulations that
4 percent biodiesel displacement of California diesel fuel.        would increase the use of biodiesel for transportation
                                                                   uses. Currently, it is unknown when such regulations
                                                                   would be implemented; however, it is expected that upon
                                                                   implementation of such a regulation that would require
                                                                   increase biodiesel blends, the diesel fueled vehicles that
                                                                   travel to and from the project site would be replaced by
                                                                   vehicles using biodiesel.
Alternative Fuels: Ethanol                                         Consistent
Increased use of E-85 fuel.                                        As data becomes available on the impacts of fuel
                                                                   specifications on the current and future vehicle fleets, the
                                                                   ARB will review and update motor vehicle fuel
                                                                   specifications as appropriate. In reviewing the
                                                                   specifications, the ARB will consider the emissions
                                                                   performance, fuel supply consequences, potential
                                                                   greenhouse gas reduction benefits, and cost issues
                                                                   surrounding E85. Future tenants of the project could
                                                                   purchase flex-fuel vehicles and utilize this fuel, once it is
                                                                   commercially available.
Heavy-Duty Vehicle Emission Reduction Measures                     Consistent
Increased efficiency in the design of heavy duty vehicles          The heavy-duty vehicles that travel to and from the
and an education program for the heavy-duty vehicle                project site on public roadways would be subject to all
sector.                                                            applicable ARB efficiency standards that are in effect at
                                                                   the time of vehicle manufacture.
Achieving 50% Statewide Recycling Goal                             Consistent
Achieving the State's 50% waste reduction mandate as               The City has completed a comprehensive waste
established by the Integrated Waste Management Act of              reduction and recycling plan in compliance with State
1989, (AB 939, Sher, Chapter 1095, Statutes of 1989),              Law AB 939, which requires every city in California to
will reduce climate change emissions, associated with              reduce the waste it sends to landfills by 50% by the year
energy intensive material extraction and production, as            2000. Currently, the City requires that at least 50% of all
well as methane emission from landfills. A per-capita              solid waste, including construction/ demolition waste, be
diversion rate of 65% has been achieved on a statewide             diverted from landfills.
basis, consistent with AB 939.
Zero Waste ­ High Recycling                                        Consistent
Efforts to exceed the 50% goal would allow for additional          As discussed above, currently, the City requires that at
reductions in climate change emissions.                            least 50% of all solid waste, including
                                                                   construction/demolition waste, be diverted from landfills.
                                                                   The City implements various programs and efforts to
                                                                   further exceed the 50% goal.
Department of Forestry
Urban Forestry                                                     Consistent
A new statewide goal of planning 5 million trees in urban          The landscaping proposed for the project would include
areas by 2020 would be achieved through the expansion              tree planting and would therefore help move toward this
of local urban forestry programs.                                  statewide goal.
Department of Water Resources
Water Use Efficiency                                               Consistent
Approximately 19 percent of all electricity, 30 percent of         The proposed project would be required to comply with
all natural gas, and 88 million gallons of diesel are used         Chapter 62, Article IV, Division 4 of the City's Municipal
to convey, treat, distribute and use water and                     Code that establishes water conservation, use and
wastewater. Increasing the efficiency of water transport           restrictions. The project proposes to utilize site design
and reducing water use would reduce greenhouse gas                 and landscape palettes to conserve a significant amount
emissions.                                                         of water and reduce run-off.



                                                                                                              City of Pomona
                                                              29
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                Table 7
                               Project Consistency with 2006 CAT Report
                             Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Strategies
                          Strategy                                                     Project Consistency
Energy Commission (CEC)
Building Energy Efficiency Standards in Place and in                 Consistent
Progress                                                             The project would be required to meet or exceed the
Public Resources Code 25402 authorizes the CEC to                    standards of Title 24 that are in effect at the time of
adopt and periodically update its building energy                    development.
efficiency standards (that apply to newly constructed
buildings and alterations to existing buildings).
Appliance Energy Efficiency Standards in Place and in                Consistent
Progress                                                             Under State law, appliances that are purchased for the
Public Resources Code 25402 authorizes the Energy                    project ­ both pre- and post-development ­ would be
Commission to adopt and periodically update its                      required to be consistent with energy efficiency
appliance energy efficiency standards (that apply to                 standards that are in effect at the time of the appliance
devices and equipment using energy that are sold or                  manufacture date.
offered for sale in California).
Business, Transportation and Housing
Measures to Improve Transportation Energy Efficiency                 Consistent
Builds on current efforts to provide a framework for                 The project would be in close proximity to existing
expanded and new initiatives including incentives, tools             commercial, residential, and recreational development,
and information that advance cleaner transportation and              which would encourage the use of alternative modes of
reduce climate change emissions.                                     transportation.
Smart Land Use and Intelligent Transportation Systems                Consistent
(ITS)                                                                The project site would be in close proximity to residential,
Smart land use strategies encourage jobs/housing                     recreational, and commercial developments. Foothill
proximity, promote transit-oriented development, and                 Transit and Metrolink have regular stops near the project
encourage high-density residential/commercial                        site.
development along transit corridors.
Public Utilities Commission (PUC)

Accelerated Renewable Portfolio Standard                             Consistent
The Governor has set a goal of achieving 33 percent                  The project would evaluate the feasibility of including
renewable in the State's resource mix by 2020. The joint             solar panels on the roofs of the proposed residential
PUC/Energy Commission September 2005 Energy                          dwellings.
Action Plan II (EAP II) adopts the 33 percent goal.

California Solar Initiative                                          Consistent
The solar initiative includes installation of 1 million solar        The project would evaluate the feasibility of including
roofs or an equivalent 3,000 MW by 2017 on homes and                 solar panels on the roofs of the proposed residential
businesses, increased use of solar thermal systems to                dwellings.
offset the increasing demand for natural gas, use of
advanced metering in solar applications, and creation of
a funding source that can provide rebates over 10 years
through a declining incentive schedule.




                                                                                                               City of Pomona
                                                                30
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                              Table 8
                        Project Consistency with Applicable Attorney General
                                Greenhouse Gas Reduction Measures

                         Strategy                                                    Project Consistency

Transportation-Related Emissions

Diesel Anti-Idling                                                 Consistent
Set specific limits on idling time for commercial vehicles,        Currently, the California Air Resources Board's (CARB)
including delivery vehicles.                                       Airborne Toxic Control Measure (ATCM) to Limit Diesel-
                                                                   Fueled Commercial Motor Vehicle Idling restricts diesel
                                                                   truck idling to five minutes or less. Diesel powered
                                                                   construction vehicles are subject to this regulation and
                                                                   thus would comply with the applicable provisions.

Transportation Emissions Reduction                                 Consistent
Provide shuttle service to public transportation.                  Shuttle service to public transportation would be
                                                                   unnecessary as the project site is located near a bus
                                                                   lines including Foothill Transit and Metrolink.

Transportation Emissions Reduction                                 Not Applicable
Incorporate bike lanes into the project circulation system.        Onsite development would not include the addition of
                                                                   bike lanes, as private streets are proposed.

Transportation Emissions Reduction                                 Not Applicable
Provide onsite bicycle and pedestrian facilities (showers,         No commercial uses are proposed as part of the project.
bicycle parking, etc.) for commercial uses, to encourage           However, the proposed project site is in close proximity
employees to bicycle or walk to work.                              to existing commercial retail, office, and recreational
                                                                   uses. Future residents would be able to access these
                                                                   uses without using a private automobile.

Solid Waste and Energy Emissions

Solid Waste Reduction Strategy                                     Consistent
Project construction shall require reuse and recycling of          To the extent feasible, the proposed project will recycle
construction and demolition waste.                                 on-site construction waste.

Water Use Efficiency                                               Consistent
Require measures that reduce the amount of water sent              The proposed project would be required to comply with
to the sewer system ­ see examples in CAT standard                 Chapter 62, Article IV, Division 4 of the City's Municipal
above. (Reduction in water volume sent to the sewer                Code that establishes water conservation, use and
system means less water has to be treated and pumped               restrictions. The project proposes to utilize site design
to the end user, thereby saving energy.                            and landscape palettes to conserve a significant amount
                                                                   of water and reduce run-off.
Land Use Measures, Smart Growth Strategies and Carbon Offsets

Smart Land Use and Intelligent Transportation Systems              Consistent
Encourage mixed-use and high density development to                The proposed project involves residential development
reduce vehicle trips, promote alternatives to vehicle              on an infill parcel adjacent to commercial, residential, and
travel and promote efficient delivery of services and              recreational uses.
goods.

Smart Land Use and Intelligent Transportation Systems              Consistent
Require pedestrian-only streets and plazas within the              The project site is located within a developed area. The
project site and destinations that may be reached                  project site would be accessible by sidewalk and would
conveniently by public transportation, walking or                  also be within walking distance of existing commercial
bicycling.                                                         and recreational uses.




                                                                                                             City of Pomona
                                                              31
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


The California Office of Planning and Research (OPR) CEQA Guidelines also include recommended
mitigation strategies to reduce GHG impacts. According to this document, mitigation measures
may include:

    1. Potential measures to reduce wasteful, inefficient and unnecessary consumption of energy
       during construction, operation, maintenance and/or removal.
    2. The potential of siting, orientation, and design to minimize energy consumption, including
       transportation energy, water conservation and solid-waste reduction.
    3. The potential for reducing peak energy demand.
    4. Alternate fuels (particularly renewable ones) or energy systems.
    5. Energy conservation which could result from recycling efforts.

Consistent with OPR mitigation strategies, onsite development would reduce wasteful,
inefficient and unnecessary consumption of energy and utilize alternative fuels by complying
with requirements of Part 6, Title 24 of the California Building Standards Code ­ California
Energy Code. The City of Pomona requires all multi-family uses to have recycling programs.
Therefore, recycling efforts would also comply with OPR strategies. The proposed project
would be consistent with CAT and Attorney General Strategies, as demonstrated in Tables 7
and 8, as well as OPR strategies, as discussed above.

GHG emissions generated by the proposed project would not have a significant adverse impact
on the environment. The project would not conflict with applicable plans, policies, or
regulations adopted for the purpose of reducing the emissions of GHGs. Therefore, the
contribution of onsite development to cumulative global climate change impacts would be
less than significant.

                                                                 Potentially
                                                                 Significant
                                                  Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                  Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                    Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
VIII. HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS
      MATERIALS - Would the project:
a) Create a significant hazard to the public or
   the environment through the routine
   transport, use, or disposal of hazardous
   materials?
b) Create a significant hazard to the public or
   the environment through reasonably
   foreseeable upset and accident conditions
   involving the release of hazardous
   materials into the environment?
c) Emit hazardous emissions or handle
   hazardous or acutely hazardous
   materials, substances, or waste within ¼
   mile of an existing or proposed school?




                                                                                        City of Pomona
                                                    32
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                     Potentially
                                                                     Significant
                                                      Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                      Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                        Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
VIII. HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS
      MATERIALS - Would the project:
d) Be located on a site which is included on
   a list of hazardous material sites compiled
   pursuant to Government Code Section
   65962.5 and, as a result, would it create a
   significant hazard to the public or the
   environment?
e) For a project located within an airport land
   use plan or, where such a plan has not
   been adopted, within two miles of a public
   airport or public use airport, would the
   project result in a safety hazard for people
   residing or working in the project area?
f)   For a project within the vicinity of a private
     airstrip, would the project result in a safety
     hazard for people residing or working in
     the project area?
g) Impair implementation of or physically
   interfere with an adopted emergency
   response plan or emergency evacuation
   plan?
h) Expose people or structures to a
   significant risk of loss, injury, or death
   involving wildland fires, including where
   wildlands are adjacent to urbanized areas
   or where residences are intermixed with
   wildlands?

a, b) Exposure to hazardous materials during the construction and operation the project could
result from: (1) exposure of contaminated soil or groundwater during grading; (2) the improper
handling or use of hazardous substances; (3) transportation accident; or (4) inadvertent release
resulting from an unforeseen event (e.g., fire, flood, or earthquake). The severity of any such
exposure is dependent upon the type, amount, and characteristic of the hazardous material
involved; the timing, location, and nature of the event; and the sensitivity of the individual or
environment affected. A Phase I ESA was prepared for the currently vacant parcels on the
project site by P&D Consultants in 2008. The Phase I ESA reported that there was no evidence of
hazardous materials or soil stains observed on-site and no past or present usage or conditions
appeared to be of environmental concern. No further environmental investigation for this site
was recommended. In addition, the existing use of the remainder of the project site as a mobile
home park would not be expected to handle, store, or dispose of hazardous materials. A site
reconnaissance visit was performed by Rincon Consultants, Inc. on March 25, 2013, and no
evidence of hazardous materials were observed. Existing structures on-site would be inspected
for evidence of any asbestos and lead-containing materials prior to demolition, in compliance
with all pertinent existing rules and regulations, including SCAQMD Rule 1403, Asbestos

                                                                                            City of Pomona
                                                        33
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


Emissions from Demolition/Renovation Activities, which would minimize health hazards
associated with these activities. In addition, the proposed project would comply with CalOSHA
regulations regarding lead-based materials. California Code of Regulations, §1532.1, requires
testing, monitoring, containment, and disposal of lead-based materials such that exposure levels
do not exceed CalOSHA standards. Impacts resulting from the use, storage, disposal, or
release of hazardous materials during construction of the proposed project would be less
than significant.

Operation of the proposed project would not involve the transport, storage, disposal, or use of
large quantities of hazardous materials. There would be some on-site storage of household
hazardous materials, such as cleaning solvents and paint. However, compliance with existing
household hazardous waste programs would ensure that impacts would be less than
significant. Impacts resulting from the use, storage, disposal, or release of hazardous
materials during operation of the proposed project would be less than significant.

c) St. Joseph Elementary School is located approximately 900 feet from the project site. As
discussed under items a and b, there are no recognized environmental conditions on-site that
would result in the release of hazardous materials within the vicinity of a school during
construction. Because the proposed project is an apartment complex, operation of the proposed
project would not handle or emit hazardous materials. There would be some on-site storage of
household hazardous materials, such as cleaning solvents and paint. However, compliance with
existing household hazardous waste programs would ensure that impacts would be less than
significant. Impacts related to the release of hazardous materials within one-mile of a school
would be less than significant.

d) There is no evidence of a hazardous environmental condition on the project site. The project
site is not listed on the Cortese list or listed in the Site Mitigation and Brownfields Reuse
Program Database, as maintained by the Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC)
Envirostar database. Furthermore, the project site is not listed on the lists of Leaking
Underground Storage Tanks (LUST) Geotracker database, as maintained by the State Water
Resources Control Board (SWRCB). Although no LUSTs were identified on the project site, the
EnviroStor database identified 14 LUST sites within a half-mile of the project site. However, 11
of the 14 LUST cases have been closed. In addition, the three LUST sites with active site
assessments all list soil as the affected media. Soil contamination on these three sites would not
be expected to affect the project site. There is also a state cleanup site at 822 West Commercial
Street (Calsol, Inc.), which is approximately 725 feet southeast of the project site. Potential media
affected includes soil, soil vapor, and groundwater. Soil contamination at this site would not be
expected to affect the proposed project. Groundwater flow in the vicinity of the Calsol Inc. site
in the uppermost groundwater zone is southerly and regional groundwater flow in the
downgradient area west of Calsol Inc. is westerly (SCS Engineers, 2008). As such, groundwater
contamination from this cleanup site would not be expected to affect groundwater at the project
site, which lies to the northwest. Due to the media affected and the groundwater flow in the
project area, impacts resulting from hazardous materials releases in the project area would be
less than significant.

e, f) The Brackett Field Airport, a general aviation airport, is located approximately 1.7 miles
north of the project site. A review of the Los Angeles County Airport Land Use Plan confirmed


                                                                                      City of Pomona
                                                 34
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


that the project site is not within a designated fly zone. In addition, the proposed project would
not construct any structures that would interfere with flight patterns or airport operations. No
impact would occur.

g) The proposed project is an infill project within the City of Pomona. As such, the proposed
project would not change any circulation patterns, and there would be no impact to existing
evacuation routes or emergency response plans. In addition, the proposed project would
comply with all Los Angeles County Fire Department standards for emergency access. No
impact would occur.

h) The proposed project is an infill project within the City of Pomona. According to the
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE)(2011), the project site is
designated as a non-very high fire hazard severity zone. No impact would occur.

                                                                   Potentially
                                                                   Significant
                                                    Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                    Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                      Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
IX.   HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY
      ­ Would the project:
a) Violate any water quality standards or
   waste discharge requirements?
b) Substantially deplete groundwater
   supplies or interfere substantially with
   groundwater recharge such that there
   would be a net deficit in aquifer volume or
   a lowering or the local groundwater table
   level (e.g., the production rate of pre-
   existing nearby wells would drop to a level
   which would not support existing land
   uses or planned uses for which permits
   have been granted)?
c) Substantially alter the existing drainage
   pattern of the site or area, including
   through the alteration of the course of a
   stream or river, in a manner which would
   result in substantial erosion or siltation on-
   or off-site?
d) Substantially alter the existing drainage
   pattern of the site or area, including the
   alteration of the course of a stream or
   river, or substantially increase the rate or
   amount of surface runoff in a manner
   which would result in flooding on- or off-
   site?
e) Create or contribute runoff water which
   would exceed the capacity of existing or
   planned stormwater drainage systems or
   provide substantial additional sources of
   polluted runoff?

                                                                                          City of Pomona
                                                      35
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                   Potentially
                                                                   Significant
                                                    Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                    Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                      Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
IX.     HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY
        ­ Would the project:
f)    Otherwise substantially degrade water
      quality?
g) Place housing within a 100-year flood
   hazard area as mapped on a federal
   Flood Hazard Boundary or Flood
   Insurance Rate Map or other flood hazard
   delineation map?
h) Place within a 100-year flood hazard area
   structures which would impede or redirect
   flood flows?
i)    Expose people or structures to a
      significant risk of loss, injury, or death
      involving flooding, including flooding as a
      result of the failure of a levee or dam?
j)    Inundation by seiche, tsunami, or
      mudflow?

a, c, f) The eastern portion of the project site is currently developed with a mobile home park
and drainage leaves the site overland and flows into the City's storm drain system. Storm water
on the undeveloped portions of the project site to the west currently percolate into the soil,
although this area was previously developed and historical drainage was likely overland. Soil
exposed during site grading and construction could potentially be transported into area storm
drains during rain events. This off-site transport of sediments and other pollutants could have
major impacts on water quality, especially if wet weather occurs during construction activities.
Therefore, if not properly managed, soil stockpiles and grading activities on the project site
could result in erosion from wind and rain and could increase the quantity of sediment in local
drainages. However, construction-related stormwater pollutant discharges from the project site
would be temporary and would be controlled through compliance with the applicable National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) requirements.

The project site is within the region covered by the Los Angeles County Municipal Storm Water
NPDES Permit No. CAS004001 issued by the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control
Board (LARWQCB). This permit governs non-point source discharges associated with storm
water runoff. Regulations under the federal Clean Water Act require compliance with the
NPDES storm water permit for projects disturbing more than one acre during construction. Per
State regulations, the applicant would be required to file a Notice of Intent with the Los Angeles
Regional Water Quality Control Board (LARWQCB) and prepare a Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP). The SWPPP would require the use of BMPs (such as gravel bags, silt
fences, hay bales, check dams, hydro seed, mulch, and soil binders) during construction, which
would prevent excessive storm water runoff pollution. The project would also be required to
prepare a Standard Urban Storm Water Management Plan (SUSMP), which requires the

                                                                                          City of Pomona
                                                      36
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


integration of post-construction BMPs into the site's overall drainage system, which would
further reduce the potential for pollutants to enter the storm drain system. The SWPPP and
SUSMP must be approved by the City prior to the issuance of a grading or building permit.
With implementation of the proposed SUSMP drainage improvements and the standard
construction-related SWPPP BMPs discussed above, water quality impacts from runoff
during temporary construction activities and long-term operational activities would be less
than significant.

b) Water service within Pomona is provided by the Pomona Public Works Department with
supply sources including groundwater, treated surface water, imported water and water
conservation. Approximately 68% of the City's water supply comes from groundwater (UWMP,
2011). However, the project site is located in the Spadra Groundwater Basin, which has a
limited amount of natural and return flow recharge to the aquifer system due to urbanization
and the lining of San Jose Creek (UWMP, 2011). As such, the project site does not substantially
contribute to groundwater recharge that would affect groundwater supplies. In addition, the
eastern portion of the project site is currently developed, and, while the western portion is
currently undeveloped, it has historically been developed with a residence. Therefore, the
project site would not interfere with groundwater recharge and impacts would be less than
significant.

Section XVII, Utilities and Service Systems, includes an analysis of water supplies available to
serve the proposed project.

d, e) The proposed project would increase the quantity of on-site impervious surfaces, which
could increase the amount of water that is discharged to the storm drain system. However, the
Los Angeles County Flood Control District (LACFCD) requires the proposed project to include
on-site drainage infrastructure to ensure that receiving water peak flows would not be increased
above pre-development volumes. Furthermore, the proposed project would include drainage
improvements that capture runoff on-site and discharge it to the storm drain system at rates
that would not exceed the pre-project condition. Therefore, project site runoff would not exceed
the capacity of storm drain facilities that serve the project site or the surrounding areas. The
project's proposed drainage plan would be consistent with LACFCD requirements and thus
impacts would be less than significant.

g, h, i) The project site is located within FEMA Flood Zone X, which is defined as an area of
"0.2% annual chance of flood; areas of 1% annual chance of flood with average depths of less
than 1 foot or with drainage areas less than 1 square mile; and areas protected by levees from
1% annual chance of flood (FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map No. 06037C1725F)." Flood Zone X
is an area of moderate risk, but is not an area where Federal floodplain management regulations
mandate purchase of flood insurance. Therefore, the proposed project would not impede or
redirect flood flows (FEMA 2008). No impact would occur.

j) Seiches are oscillations of the surface of inland bodies of water that vary in period from a few
minutes to several hours. Seismic excitations can induce such oscillations. Tsunamis are large
sea waves produced by submarine earthquakes or volcanic eruptions. The project site is not
located close to body of water and is not located at least 1,000 feet above sea level. Therefore, the
proposed project would not be affected by a tsunami or seiche. Furthermore, the project site is


                                                                                      City of Pomona
                                                 37
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


flat and surrounded by urban development. As such, the project site would not be subject to
mudflows. There would be no impact resulting from a tsunami, seiche, or mudflow.

                                                                  Potentially
                                                                  Significant
                                                   Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                   Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                     Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
X.    LAND USE AND PLANNING --
      Would the proposal:
a) Physically divide an established
   community?
b) Conflict with any applicable land use plan,
   policy, or regulation of an agency with
   jurisdiction over the project (including, but
   not limited to the general plan, specific
   plan, local coastal program, or zoning
   ordinance) adopted for the purpose of
   avoiding or mitigating an environmental
   effect?
c) Conflict with an applicable habitat
   conservation plan or natural community
   conservation plan?

a) The proposed project would be located on an existing developed lot and a vacant lot that was
previously developed with a residence. The project site is an infill site within the City.
Therefore, construction of the proposed project would not divide an established community
and there would be no impact.

b) The proposed project would require a conditional use permit, a general plan amendment, a
variance, and a zone change. Approval of the proposed entitlements would ensure that the
proposed project would be consistent with applicable general plan and zoning policies. In
addition, the proposed project would be consistent with the Corridors Specific Plan, which is
currently underway and would include the project site. Therefore, impacts would be less than
significant.

c) The project site is located within an urban area and is not governed by an adopted habitat or
natural conservation plan. Therefore, no impact would occur.

                                                                  Potentially
                                                                  Significant
                                                   Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                   Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                     Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XI.   MINERAL RESOURCES --
      Would the project:
a) Result in the loss of availability of a known
   mineral resource that would be of value to
   the region and the residents of the state?



                                                                                         City of Pomona
                                                     38
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                       Potentially
                                                                       Significant
                                                        Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                        Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                          Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XI.      MINERAL RESOURCES --
         Would the project:
b) Result in the loss of availability of a locally
   important mineral resource recovery site
   delineated on a local general plan,
   specific plan, or other land use plan?
a,b) The California Department of Conservation does not designate Pomona as being within a
Significant Mineral Aggregate Resource Area (SMARA), nor is it located in an area with active
mineral extraction activities. Therefore, no impact to mineral resources would occur.

                                                                       Potentially
                                                                       Significant
                                                        Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                        Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                          Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XII.     NOISE ­ Would the project result in:
a) Exposure of persons to or generation of
   noise levels in excess of standards
   established in the local general plan or
   noise ordinance, or applicable standards
   of other agencies?
b) Exposure of persons to or generation of
   excessive groundborne vibration or
   groundborne noise levels?
c) A substantial permanent increase in
   ambient noise levels above levels existing
   without the project?
d) A substantial temporary or periodic
   increase in ambient noise levels in the
   project vicinity above levels existing
   without the project?
e) For a project located within an airport land
   use plan or, where such a plan has not
   been adopted, within two miles of a public
   airport or public use airport, would the
   project expose people residing or working
   in the project area to excessive noise
   levels?
f)     For a project within the vicinity of a private
       airstrip, would the project expose people
       residing or working in the project area to
       excessive noise?

Noise level (or volume) is generally measured in decibels (dB) using the A-weighted sound


                                                                                              City of Pomona
                                                          39
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


pressure level (dBA). The A-weighting scale is an adjustment to the actual sound power levels
consistent with the human hearing response, which is most sensitive to frequencies around
4,000 Hertz (about the highest note on a piano) and less sensitive to low frequencies (below 100
Hertz).

Sound pressure level is measured on a logarithmic scale with the 0 dBA level based on the
lowest detectable sound pressure level that people can perceive (an audible sound that is not
zero sound pressure level). Based on the logarithmic scale, a doubling of sound energy is
equivalent to an increase of 3 dBA, and a sound that is 10 dBA less than the ambient sound level
has no effect on ambient noise. Because of the nature of the human ear, a sound must be about
10 dB greater than the reference sound to be judged as twice as loud. In general, a 3 dBA change
in community noise levels is noticeable, while 1-2 dBA changes generally are not perceived.
Quiet suburban areas typically have noise levels in the range of 40-50 dBA, while those along
arterial streets are in the 50-60+ dBA range. Normal conversational levels are in the 60-65 dBA
range, and ambient noise levels greater than 65 dBA can interrupt conversations.

In addition to the instantaneous measurement of sound levels, the duration of sound is
important since sounds that occur over a long period of time are more likely to be an annoyance
or cause direct physical damage or environmental stress. One of the most frequently used noise
metrics that considers both duration and sound power level is the equivalent noise level (Leq).
The Leq is defined as the single steady A-weighted level that is equivalent to the same amount of
energy as that contained in the actual fluctuating levels over a period of time (essentially, the
average noise level). Typically, Leq is summed over a one-hour period.

The time period in which noise occurs is also important since noise that occurs at night tends to
be more disturbing than that which occurs during the daytime. Two commonly used noise
metrics ­ the Day-Night average level (Ldn) and the Community Noise Equivalent Level (CNEL)
recognize this fact by weighting hourly Leqs over a 24-hour period. The Ldn is a 24-hour average
noise level that adds 10 dB to actual nighttime (10:00 PM to 7:00 AM) noise levels to account for
the greater sensitivity to noise during that time period. The CNEL is identical to the Ldn, except
it also adds a 5 dB penalty for noise occurring during the evening (7:00 PM to 10:00 PM).

Vibration is sound radiated through the ground. The rumbling sound caused by the vibration of
room surfaces is called ground borne noise. Ground borne vibration is almost exclusively a
concern inside buildings and is rarely perceived as a problem outdoors. Ground-borne
vibration related to human annoyance is generally related to velocity levels expressed in
vibration decibels (VdB). However, construction-related groundborne vibration in relation to its
potential for building damage can also be measured in inches per second (in/sec) peak particle
velocity (PPV) (Federal Transit Administration, May 2006). Based on the FTA's Transit Noise and
Vibration Impact Assessment and the California Department of Transportation's 1992
Transportation-Related Earthborne Vibration, Technical Advisory, vibration levels decrease by 6 VdB
with every doubling of distance.

Noise exposure goals for various types of land uses reflect the varying noise sensitivities
associated with those uses. Residences, hospitals, schools, guest lodging, libraries, and parks are
most sensitive to noise intrusion and therefore have more stringent noise exposure targets than
commercial or industrial uses that are not subject to impacts such as sleep disturbance. Sensitive

                                                                                     City of Pomona
                                                 40
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


land uses generally should not be subjected to noise levels that would be considered intrusive
in character. Therefore, the location, hours of operation, type of use, and extent of development
warrant close analysis in an effort to ensure that noise sensitive receptors are not substantially
affected by noise.

Noise Standards
The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has published guidelines for assessing the impacts of
groundborne vibration associated with construction activities, which have been applied by
other jurisdictions to other types of projects. The FTA measure of the threshold of architectural
damage for non-engineered timber and mason buildings (e.g., residential units) is 0.2 in/sec
PPV. The threshold of perception of vibration is 0.01 in/sec PPV (Federal Transit
Administration, Office of Planning and the Environment, 2006).

Title 24, Section 3501 et. seq. of the California Code of Regulations codifies California Noise
Insulation Standards. This code section uses the Community Noise Equivalency Level (CNEL)
as its primary noise evaluation measurement. The CNEL measurement assesses noise variation
during different times of the day for the purposes of averaging noise over a 24-hour period.
Essentially, CNEL takes average sound levels at an observation point and adds a weighted
penalty to those sounds that occur during the evening and nighttime hours. An interior noise
level of 45 dBA CNEL is often considered the desirable noise exposure level for single-family
residential units. An exterior noise level of 65 dBA is generally considered an acceptable level
for residential and other noise-sensitive land uses.

The City of Pomona Municipal Code Chapter 18, Article VII, identifies interior and exterior
noise level standards for residential uses. Table 9 shows the City's noise level standards for
multi-family residential properties.

                                                 Table 9
                                  City of Pomona Noise Standards for
                                   Multi-family Residential Properties
                                                 Time Interval              Noise Level dB(A)
                                            10:00 PM to 7:00 AM                      40
                       Interior
                                            7:00 AM to 10:00 PM                      50
                                            10:00 PM to 7:00 AM                      50
                       Exterior
                                            7:00 AM to 10:00 PM                      65
                      Source: City of Pomona Municipal Code, Chapter 18, Article VII, Sections 18-
                      311, -312.


The Municipal Code also identifies vibration standards:

        "Notwithstanding other sections of this article, it shall be unlawful for any
        person to create, maintain or cause any ground vibration which is perceptible
        without instruments at any point on any affected property adjoining the
        property on which the vibration source is located. For the purpose of this article,
        the perception threshold shall be presumed to be more than 0.05 inch per second
        RMS vertical velocity."

                                                                                                     City of Pomona
                                                           41
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


a, c, d)

Construction Noise
The proposed project would generate temporary (construction-related) noise over the duration
of the construction phase, which is estimated to occur over 12 months. Noise levels associated
with project construction would be substantially higher than existing ambient noise levels in the
project vicinity, but would cease upon completion of construction. Noise impacts experienced
on-site would vary depending on the type of construction equipment, the equipment's location,
the sensitivity of nearby land uses, and the timing/duration of construction. Typical
construction noise levels range from about 78-88 dBA at a distance of 50 feet. There is a single-
family residence located approximately 15 feet south of the proposed project, as well as several
others within 50 feet. Construction noise would be audible at these locations and may cause
temporary disturbance during times of peak activity. To address temporary construction noise
impacts, the City of Pomona limits construction activities to the hours of 7:00 AM to 8:00 PM
Monday through Saturday, and prohibits construction anytime on Sundays and legal holidays,
provided the noise does not exceed the 65 dBA exterior noise level standard. Compliance with
existing noise timing restrictions would reduce impacts to a less than significant level. In
addition, Mitigation Measures N-1(a) through N-1(f) are recommended to further reduce
construction noise impacts on adjacent sensitive receptors.

           N-1   Acoustical Shelters. Air compressors and generators used for
                 construction shall be surrounded by temporary acoustical shelters if
                 within 100 feet of a sensitive receptor.

           N-2   Mufflers. During all project site excavation and grading, all construction
                 equipment, fixed or mobile, shall be operated with closed engine doors
                 and shall be equipped with properly operating and maintained mufflers
                 consistent with manufacturers' standards.

           N-3   Stationary Equipment and Equipment Staging. All equipment staging
                 and stationary construction equipment shall be located near the center of
                 the project site, or in a location that establishes at least a 100 foot setback
                 between the adjacent residential dwellings and construction staging areas
                 and stationary construction equipment.

           N-4   Electrically-Powered Tools and Facilities. To the extent practical,
                 electrical power shall be used to run air compressors and similar power
                 tools and to power any temporary structures, such as construction trailers
                 or caretaker facilities.

           N-5   Additional Noise Attentuation Techniques. For all noise-generating
                 construction activity on the project site, additional noise attenuation
                 techniques shall be employed as necessary to reduce noise levels. Such
                 techniques may include, but are not limited to, the use of sound blankets
                 on noise-generating equipment and the construction of temporary sound
                 barriers between construction sites and nearby sensitive receptors.


                                                                                         City of Pomona
                                                   42
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


        N-6      City Enforcement - Noise. The Building Official of the City of La Verne
                 shall enforce noise-attenuating construction requirements.
                     Excavation, grading, and other construction activities related to the proposed
                     project shall comply with City restrictions on hours of construction activity.
                     All construction vehicles, such as bulldozers and haul trucks, shall be
                     prohibited from idling in excess of 5 minutes.
                     The contractor shall inspect construction equipment to ensure that such
                     equipment is in proper operating condition and fitted with standard factory
                     silencing features. Construction equipment shall utilize all standard factory
                     silencing features, such as equipment mufflers, enclosures, and barriers.

Operational Noise
The proposed project would also be considered a sensitive use. Onsite noise monitoring
conducted on March 21, 2013, measured onsite noise levels at 72.6 dBA Leq, which exceeds the
normally acceptable range for residential uses. As such, operation of the proposed project could
expose residents to excessive noise levels generated by traffic along West Holt Avenue.
However, compliance with existing California building code standards (Title 24) would require
incorporation of noise attenuation features to ensure that the proposed project would maintain
an interior noise level standard of 45 dBA. Such features could include, but are not limited to,
windows, wall assemblies, and exterior doors with a Sound Transmission Class (STC) sufficient
to achieve an acceptable interior noise level (based on the onsite measure, the STC rating would
need to be approximately 30 (the STC rating is roughly equivalent to the dBA reduction
required). Compliance with Title 24 would ensure that residents of the proposed project would
not be exposed to excessive noise. Impacts would be less than significant.

b) Vibration is a unique form of noise. It is unique because its energy is carried through
buildings, structures, and the ground, whereas noise is simply carried through the air. Thus,
vibration is generally felt rather than heard. Some vibration effects can be caused by noise; e.g.,
the rattling of windows from truck pass-bys. This phenomenon is caused by the coupling of the
acoustic energy at frequencies that are close to the resonant frequency of the material being
vibrated. Typically, groundborne vibration generated by manmade activities attenuates rapidly
as distance from the source of the vibration as vibration rapidly diminishes in amplitude with
distance from the source. In the U.S., the ground motion caused by vibration is measured as
particle velocity in inches per second and is also referenced as vibration decibels (VdB).

Construction activity on the project site would be temporary, and the use of heavy equipment
would be limited to the demolition, site preparation, grading and bulding construction phases.
As construction of the outer shell of the residential dwellings progresses, the residence itself
would contain much of the construction activity, and the likelihood of using bulldozers,
jackhammers, and other heavy equipoment decreases. Trucks would still be anticipated to bring
construction materials to the site throughout the building phases, which may periodically
generate vibrations that could be felt by nearby receptors; however, these vibrations likely
would not persist for long periods. Typical groundborne vibration levels for a large bulldozer is
87 VdB at 25 feet, 81 Vdb at 50 feet, and 75 Vdb at 100 feet, based on the Federal Transit
Administration's (FTA's) Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment (May 2006) as shown in
Table 10.


                                                                                            City of Pomona
                                                    43
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


The existing residential uses located immediately east and south of the project site are located
within 25 feet of the construction envelope, and would be exposed to groundborne vibration
reaching approximately 87 VdB (large bulldozer at 25 feet). The exposure of nearby residents to
87 VdB is equivalent to a peak particle velocity of 0.089 inches per second or an RMS velocity of
0.003 inches per second (Harris, et al., 1995). As such, the exposure of nearby residences to
groundborne vibration would not exceed the City's standard of 0.05 RMS velocity. In addition,
the construction activity on the project site with the potential to cause groundborne vibration
would be temporary in duration and would be limited to the hours of 7:00 AM to 8:00 PM
Monday through Saturday, and would be prohibited anytime on Sundays and legal holidays.
This restriction would prevent construction vibration impacts associated with sleep disturbance
for nearby residents. Therefore, the proposed project's construction activity would not involve
any vibration sources that would expose people to excessive or prolonged groundborne
vibration or groundborne noise levels. Impacts would be less than significant.

                                                 Table 10
                                     Typical Vibration Source Levels
                                       for Construction Equipment
                                                                         Approximate VdB

                                  Equipment                       25 Feet    50 Feet   100 Feet

                   Large Bulldozer                                  87         81          75

                   Loaded Trucks                                    86         80          74

                   Small Bulldozer                                  58         52          46
                   Source: Federal Transit Administration, 2006


c) The residential use of the proposed project would not generate excessive noise levels.
However, the proposed project could contribute to ambient noise levels through the increase in
vehicle trips along West Holt Avenue. The primary source of ambient noise in the project area is
traffic along West Holt Avenue. According to the traffic study (Linscott, Law & Greenspan
Engineers, 2013), the proposed project would generate approximately 412 daily trips. Based on
the existing peak hour volumes at the two intersections on either side of the project site (Dudley
Street/Holt Avenue and Hamilton Boulevard/Holt Avenue), the heaviest traffic volumes along
West Holt Avenue occur during the PM peak hour. An average of the traffic volumes at these
two intersections suggests that there are approximately 1,847 trips along the segment of West
Holt Avenue adjacent to the project site during the heaviest peak hour traffic. As discussed
previously, a doubling of sound energy is needed to generate an audible increase in community
noise level. Therefore, a doubling of traffic would be required to generate an audible increase in
noise levels along West Holt Avenue. The proposed project would increase roadway traffic
along West Holt Avenue by 412 trips, which is an increase of about 22 percent. Therefore, the
proposed project would not generate a perceptible permanent increase in noise compared to
existing noise levels in the project area. Therefore, operational noise impacts generated by the
proposed project would be less than significant.

e) The Brackett Field Airport, a general aviation airport, is located approximately 1.7 miles
north of the project site. A review of the Los Angeles County Airport Land Use Plan confirmed

                                                                                                  City of Pomona
                                                           44
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


that the project site is not within a designated fly zone. Therefore, the proposed project would
not expose future residents to significant levels of aircraft noise. Impacts would be less than
significant.

f) There are no private airstrips within the vicinity of the proposed project. No impact would
occur.


                                                                Potentially
                                                                Significant
                                                 Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                 Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                   Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XIII. POPULATION AND HOUSING --
      Would the project:
a) Induce substantial population growth in an
   area, either directly (for example, by
   proposing new homes and businesses) or
   indirectly (for example, through extension
   of roads or other infrastructure)?
b) Displace substantial numbers of existing
   housing, necessitating the construction of
   replacement housing elsewhere?
c) Displace substantial numbers of people,
   necessitating the construction of
   replacement housing elsewhere?

a) According to the 2010 Census data summary provided by the Southern California
Association of Governments (SCAG), the population of the City of Pomona is 149,058. Since the
2000 Census, the City has experienced a population decline of approximately 0.3%. As indicated
in Table 11, SCAG estimates that the population of Pomona will continue to grow to 168,500
persons by the year 2020 and 197,400 persons by the year 2035.

The construction of additional residential dwellings could directly generate population growth
by attracting new residents from outside the City, thereby contributing to a permanent increase
in population within the project area. The proposed project involves the construction of 62
single-family residential dwellings. The California Department of Finance (DOF) estimates that
there are 3.78 persons per household in the City of Pomona (2012). Using the DOF estimates, the
proposed 62 units would generate approximately 234 new residents. This equates to
approximately 1.2% of the City's total projected population growth through the year 2020.
Therefore, project-related population growth has been anticipated in SCAG's long-term
population forecasts. Population growth impacts would be less than significant.




                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                   45
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                            Table 11
                           Population and Employment Growth in the City,
                                        County, and Region
                                                               1
                           Jurisdiction           2008/2010            2020              2035

                                                      Population

                          City of Pomona           149,058            168,500           197,400

                        Los Angeles County        9,778,000         10,404,000        11,353,000

                        Southern California       17,895,000        19,663,000        22,091,000

                                                     Employment

                          City of Pomona            54,700            57,000            59,600

                        Los Angeles County        4,340,000          4,558,000         4,827,000

                        Southern California       7,738,000          8,414,000         9,441,000
                    1
                     SCAG Regional Growth Forecast estimates use 2008 numbers. However, the
                    2010 U.S. Census numbers were used to provide a more accurate description of the
                    current population in Pomona. SCAG Community Profile data uses the 2010 U.S.
                    Census population as well.
                    Source: SCAG, 2012 and SCAG 2011.


b, c) A portion of the project site is currently developed with a mobile home park. As part of the
proposed project, approximately 19 mobile homes would either be relocated to another site, or
possibly demolished, depending on the condition of the structures. For the purpose of a
providing a conservative analysis for population and housing impacts, it is assumed the trailers
would all be demolished. Assuming 3.78 persons per household (DOF, 2012) and the loss of 19
housing units, the proposed project would displace approximately 71.82 people. However,
according to the DOF, the City currently has a vacancy rate of 5.43%, which is equivalent to
2,209 housing units. As such, there is sufficient existing housing within the City to
accommodate displaced residents. In addition, the proposed project is an apartment complex
that would add 62 housing units to the City's housing stock. Therefore, the project would
compensate for the loss of housing units. Impacts to the displacement of people and housing
would be less than significant.

                                                                         Potentially
                                                                         Significant
                                                       Potentially         Unless            Less than
                                                       Significant        Mitigation         Significant     No
                                                         Impact         Incorporated           Impact      Impact
XIV. PUBLIC SERVICES
a) Would the project result in substantial
   adverse physical impacts associated with
   the provision of new or physically altered
   governmental facilities, or the need for
   new or physically altered governmental
   facilities, the construction of which could
   cause significant environmental impacts,
   in order to maintain acceptable service

                                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                          46
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                Potentially
                                                                Significant
                                                 Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                 Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                   Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XIV. PUBLIC SERVICES
    ratios, response times or other
    performance objectives for any of the
    public services:
    i)    Fire protection?
    ii)   Police protection?
    iii) Schools?
    iv) Parks?
    v) Other public facilities?

a(i)) The Los Angeles County Fire Department (LACoFD) would provide fire protection
services to the project site. Pomona is part of the LACoFD Division VIII. In addition to Pomona,
Division VIII includes the neighboring cities of Diamond Bar, Walnut, Hacienda Heights, and
Industry. There are 19 fire stations among the cities in Division VIII, 8 of which are located in
Pomona. The proposed project is within the jurisdiction of Battalion 15 of the LACoFD, and the
fire station nearest to the project site is Fire Station No. 182, located at 1059 N. White Avenue,
approximately 0.7 miles northeast of the project site. Fire Station No. 184 is also located at 1980
W. Orange Grove, which is approximately 1.3 miles west of the project site. If necessary,
resources in adjacent jurisdictions provide additional support. While the proposed project may
incrementally increase the demand for fire protection services, the project site is within the
existing service area of the LACFD and would not require new or expanded fire protection
facilities. In addition, the proposed project would be required to comply LACFD standards,
including but not limited to, adequate vehicle access, adequate fire flow, the use of proper fire
resistant construction methods, and a sufficient number of on-site fire hydrants. Therefore,
impacts to fire services would be less than significant.

a(ii)) Police service to the project site would be provided by the Pomona Police Department. The
police station nearest to the project site is located at 490 West Mission Boulevard, approximately
1.2 miles southeast of the project site. The proposed development of 62 residential units may
incrementally increase the demand for police protection services. However, the proposed
project would be within the existing service area of the Pomona Police Department and no new
facilities would be needed to accommodate the proposed project. Therefore, impacts to police
services would be less than significant.

a(iii)) The project site is located within the Pomona Unified School District (PUSD). Schools that
would serve the project site include Roosevelt Elementary School located at 701 N. Huntington
Boulevard; Marshall Middle School, located at 1921 West Arroyo Avenue; and Ganesha High
School, located at 1151 Fairplex Drive. The proposed development of 62 residential units would
incrementally increase student enrollment within the PUSD. The estimated student generation
factor for multi-family residential units in the PUSD is 0.1 elementary students, 0.05 middle

                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                   47
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


school students, and 0.08 high school students (Personal Communication, Terry, 2012).
Therefore, the proposed project would generate a total of 16 students, including 7 elementary
students, 4 middle school students, and 5 high school students. In the 2011/2012 school year,
Roosevelt Elementary had an enrollment of 756 students and a capacity of 1,042; Marshall
Middle School had an enrollment of 644 students and a capacity of 1,030; and Ganesha High
School had an enrollment of 1,362 students and a capacity of 1,680 (Personal Communication,
Young, 2012). Based on the 2011/2012 enrollment, each of the schools would have sufficient
capacity to serve new students generated by the proposed project. In addition, the project
proponents would be required to pay the state-mandated school impact fees. Pursuant to
Section 65995 (3)(h) of the California Government Code (Senate Bill 50, chaptered August 27,
1998), the payment of statutory fees "...is deemed to be full and complete mitigation of the
impacts of any legislative or adjudicative act, or both, involving, but not limited to, the
planning, use, or development of real property, or any change in governmental organization or
reorganization." Therefore, impacts would be less than significant.

a(iv)) Please refer to Section XV, Recreation.

a(v)) The proposed project would incrementally increase the local population which may
incrementally increase the demand for library services. However, the increase in population
generated by the proposed project would not require the construction of new facilities. In
addition, the payment of property taxes would offset project-related impacts to library services.
Impacts would be less than significant.

Impacts to other public facilities (e.g. sewer, storm drains, and roadways) are discussed in
sections XVI, Transportation/Traffic, and XVII, Utilities and Services Systems, of this Initial Study.

                                                                Potentially
                                                                Significant
                                                 Potentially      Unless       Less than
                                                 Significant     Mitigation    Significant      No
                                                   Impact      Incorporated      Impact       Impact
XV.   RECREATION --
a) Would the project increase the use of
   existing neighborhood and regional parks
   or other recreational facilities such that
   substantial physical deterioration of the
   facility would occur or be accelerated?
b) Does the project include recreational
   facilities or require the construction or
   expansion of recreational facilities which
   might have an adverse physical effect on
   the environment?

a, b) As of 2010, the City of Pomona owns and operates 211 acres of developed park land
(Personal Communication, Arends, 2012). Based on the California Department of Finance (DOF)
population estimate of 149,950 residents of the City of Pomona, the City provides about 1.4
acres of park land per 1,000 residents. The project involves the construction of 62 apartment
units, which would incrementally increase the demand for park facilities. Hamilton Park is the

                                                                                         City of Pomona
                                                   48
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


closest park, located approximately 300 feet east of the project site and offers a playground,
basketball court, and picnic/barbeque areas.

The DOF estimates that there are 3.78 persons per household in the City of Pomona (2012).
Using the DOF estimates, the proposed 62 units would generate approximately 234 new
residents. Because it is unknown at this time whether the existing residences would be
demolished or relocated, it is assumed all residents would be new residents. The addition of 234
new residents would not be substantial enough to change the existing ratio of park land to
residents. In addition, the proposed project would provide approximately 0.2 acres of
landscaped open space and 0.4 acres of private open space, for a total of 0.6 acres of open space.
The useable open space provided on-site would further reduce the need for off-site recreational
facilities. Impacts to existing City parks would be less than significant.

                                                                Potentially
                                                                Significant
                                                 Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                 Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                   Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XVI. TRANSPORTATION / TRAFFIC --
     Would the project:
a) Conflict with an applicable plan, ordinance
   or policy establishing a measure of
   effectiveness for the performance of the
   circulation system, taking into account all
   modes of transportation, including mass
   transit and non-motorized travel and
   relevant components of the circulation
   system, including but not limited to
   intersections, streets, highways, and
   freeways, pedestrian and bicycle paths,
   and mass transit?
b) Conflict with an applicable congestion
   management program, including, but not
   limited to level of service standards and
   travel demand measures, or other
   standards established by the county
   congestion management agency for
   designated roads or highways?
c) Result in a change in air traffic patterns,
   including either an increase in traffic
   levels or a change in location that results
   in substantial safety risks?
d) Substantially increase hazards due to a
   design feature (e.g., sharp curves or
   dangerous intersections) or incompatible
   use (e.g., farm equipment)?
e) Result in inadequate emergency access?
f)   Conflict with adopted policies, plans, or
     programs regarding public transit,
     bikeways, or pedestrian facilities, or

                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                   49
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                Potentially
                                                                Significant
                                                 Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                 Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                   Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XVI. TRANSPORTATION / TRAFFIC --
     Would the project:
    otherwise substantially decrease the
    performance or safety of such facilities?

The project's potential impact on the circulation system within the City of Pomona was
evaluated by Linscott, Law, & Greenspan, Engineers (April 2013). The full text of this Traffic
Impact Study (TIS) can be found in Appendix C of this IS-MND. The TIS was prepared
pursuant to the City of Pomona traffic study guidelines and the Los Angeles County
Congestion Management Program. Study area intersections were determined in consultation
with City of Pomona Public Works Department (PPWD) staff. The Highway Capacity Manual
(HCM) method was used to determine levels of service for the study intersections. A review
was also conducted of Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority freeway and
intersection monitoring stations to determine if a Congestion Management Program
transportation impact assessment analysis was required for the proposed project.
The traffic study evaluated the following two intersections, chosen in collaboration with City of
Pomona PPWD staff:

    1. Dudley Street/Holt Avenue
    2. Hamilton Boulevard/Holt Avenue

Roadway Descriptions
Dudley Street is a north-south oriented roadway that is located west of the project site. Dudley
Street is a discontinuous roadway that extends from just north of I-10 freeway to Holt Avenue
to the south. Two through travel lanes are generally provided in each direction on the roadway
within the project study area. Dual left-turn lanes and a right-turn only lane are provided at the
southbound approach on Dudley Street at the Holt Avenue intersection. Dudley Street is posted
for a 35 miles per hour speed limit in the project vicinity.

Hamilton Boulevard is a north-south oriented roadway that is located east of the project site.
Two through travel lanes are generally provided in each direction on the roadway within the
project study area. A two-way left-turn lane is also provided along Hamilton Boulevard, north
of Holt Avenue. Separate left-turn lanes are provided in both directions on Hamilton Boulevard
at the Holt Avenue intersection. Hamilton Boulevard is posted for a 35 miles per hour speed
limit in the project vicinity.

Holt Avenue is an east-west oriented roadway that borders the project site to the north. Two
through travel lanes are generally provided in each direction on the roadway within the project
study area. Separate left-turns are provided in both directions on Holt Avenue at the Dudley
Street and Hamilton Boulevard study intersections. A two-way left-turn lane is also provided
along Holt Avenue within the project study area. Holt Avenue is posted for a 35 miles per hour
speed limit in the project vicinity.

                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                   50
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


Significance Thresholds/Methodology
According to the City's published traffic study guidelines, the impact is considered significant if
the project-related increase in the volume to capacity (v/c) ratio equals or exceeds the
thresholds presented in Table 12.

According to Section 15130 of the CEQA Guidelines, cumulative development can be forecast
one of two ways:

        "(A) A list of past, present, and probable future projects producing related or
        cumulative impacts, including, if necessary, those projects outside the control of
        the [lead] agency, or

        (B) A summary of projections contained in an adopted local, regional or
        statewide plan, or related planning document, that describes or evaluates
        conditions contributing to the cumulative effect. Such plans may include: a
        general plan, regional transportation plan, or plans for the reduction of
        greenhouse gas emissions. A summary of projections may also be contained in
        an adopted or certified prior environmental document for such a plan. Such
        projections may be supplemented with additional information such as a regional
        modeling program. Any such document shall be referenced and made available
        to the public at a location specified by the lead agency."

                                                Table 12
                          City of Pomona Intersection Impact Threshold Criteria
     Signalized Intersections          Any study intersection that is operating at LOS `A', `B', `C' or `D' for any study
                                       scenario without project traffic in which the addition of project traffic causes the
                                       intersection to degrade to a LOS `E' or `F' shall mitigate that impact so as to
                                       bring the intersection back to at least LOS `D'.

                                       Any study intersection that is operating at LOS `E' or `F' for any study scenario
                                       without project traffic shall mitigate any impacts so as to bring the intersection
                                       back to the overall level of delay established prior to project traffic being added.
     Unsignalized Intersections        An impact is considered significant if the study determines that either section a)
                                       or both sections b) and c) occur:

                                         a) The addition of project related traffic causes the intersection to move
                                             from a LOS `D' or better to a LOS `E' or worse
                                        OR

                                          b) The project contributes additional traffic to an intersection that is already
                                              projected to operate at LOS `E' or `F' with background traffic (per
                                              Section 3.2b)

                                          AND

                                          c) One or both of the following conditions are met:
                                              1) The project adds ten (10) or more trips to any approach
                                              2) The intersection meets the peak hour traffic signal warrant after the
                                                  addition of project traffic (per Section 3.2c).
     Source: City of Pomona Public Works Department, Traffic Impact Study Guidelines, February 2012.


Based on consultation with PPWD staff, the traffic analysis utilizes option "B" for purposes of
developing the future without project traffic volumes as outlined in the CEQA Guidelines.

                                                                                                          City of Pomona
                                                            51
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


The existing traffic volumes were increased at an annual rate of 2.0 percent (2.0%) per year to
the year 2014 (i.e., the anticipated year of project build-out). The ambient growth factor was
determined in consultation with PPWD staff. It is noted that based on general traffic growth
factors provided in the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County (the
"CMP manual") for the Pomona area (RSA No. 27), it is anticipated that the existing traffic
volumes are expected to increase at an annual rate of less than 2.0% per year between the years
2010 and 2015 (i.e., approximately 1.62%). Thus, application of the 2.0% annual growth factor
allows for a conservative forecast of future traffic volumes in the area. Further, it is noted that
the CMP manual's traffic growth rate is intended to anticipate future traffic generated by
development projects in the project vicinity.

The TIS analyzed the following four scenarios:

    1.   Existing Conditions
    2.   Existing + Project Conditions
    3.   Future without Project Conditions
    4.   Future + Project Conditions

The impact discussion below provides analysis of each of the four scenarios. The project trip
distribution and assignment used for all four scenarios were based on the following
considerations:

         The site's proximity to major traffic corridors (i.e., Holt Avenue, Dudley Street, Hamilton
         Boulevard, White Avenue, etc.);
         Expected localized traffic flow patterns based on adjacent roadway channelization and
         presence of traffic signals;
         Existing intersection traffic volumes;
         Ingress/egress availability at the project site assuming the site access and circulation
         scheme proposed;
         Nearby population and employment centers as well as adjacent residential
         neighborhoods; and
         Input from PPWD staff.

Project trip distribution is shown in Figure 5.

Public Transit Services
Public transit service within the Holt Family Apartments project study area is currently
provided by Foothill Transit and Metrolink. Foothill Transit provides service to Pomona
TransCenter to Puente Hills Mall via Cal Poly, Diamond Bar, and Rowland Heights. Stops are
located on Holt Avenue, Hamilton Boulevard, and Dudley Street. Metrolink provides service
from Riverside-Downtown to Los Angeles Union Station. There is a stop located in downtown
Pomona at 101 West First Street.

Bicycle Access
Bicycle access to and from the project site will be facilitated in the future by the planned City of
Pomona's bicycle roadway network. A total of four bicycle facilities (i.e., Class II Bike Lanes, or

                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                  52
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                                            PROJECT SITE




          /
       NOT TO SCALE




Basemap Source: Linscott, Law & Greenspan Engineers, 2013
                                                             Project Trip Distribution       Figure 5
                                                                                         City of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


Class III Bike Routes) in the City's planned bicycle network will be located within the
immediate proximity from the project site. These four bicycle facilities will in the future connect
with the City's proposed bicycle network. The following key bicycle routes planned to be
located near the Holt Family Apartments project site:

        North-South Routes
           o Dudley Street ­ Class III Bike Route
           o Hamilton Boulevard ­ Class II Bike Lane
        East-West Routes
           o Orange Grove Avenue ­ Class II Bike Lane
           o Laurel Avenue ­ Class III Bike Route

Class II bikeways are lanes on the outside edge of roadways reserved for the exclusive use of
bicycles and are designated with special signing and pavement markings. Class III bikeways are
roadways recommended for bicycle use and are designated with signs posted along roadways.

Enhanced Class III bikeways include 4" white edgelines and "Share the Road" signage.

Pedestrian Network
The project site has been configured to facilitate pedestrian activity and walking as a
transportation mode. The proposed project will connect to adjacent sidewalks and site
enhancements are planned to facilitate connectivity and walkability. Walkability is a term for
the extent to which walking is readily available as a safe, connected, accessible and pleasant
mode of transport.

a) The traffic impact analysis was prepared for the study intersections using the HCM
methodology and application of the City of Pomona significant traffic impact criteria. As
described above, four separate scenarios were analyzed: (1) Existing Conditions, (2) Existing +
Project Conditions, (3) Future without Project Conditions, and (4) Future + Project Conditions.
The traffic impact determinations for each scenario are described below. Table 13 shows the
traffic volume to capacity ratios and the levels of service for each scenario, while Table 14 shows
the project trip generation.

Existing Conditions
As shown in Table 13, the two study area intersections currently operate at LOS B or better
during the peak hours. Existing delays at the intersection of Dudley Street/Holt Avenue are 7.9
seconds in the AM peak hour and 5.6 seconds in the PM peak hour. Existing delays at the
Hamilton Boulevard/Holt Avenue intersection are 15.7 seconds in the AM peak hour and 13.9
seconds in the PM peak hour. Figure 6 shows existing traffic volumes.




                                                                                     City of Pomona
                                                 54
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




                                          Table 13
                   Summary of Volume to Capacity Ratios and Levels of Service
                               Weekday AM and PM Peak Hours
                                                                                         Future
                                        Existing           Existing + Project            without      Future + Project
                             Peak                                                        Project
No.     Intersection
                             Hour               L               L                               L                L
                                                                               Im-                                          Im-
                                       Delay    O     Delay     O                       Delay   O     Delay      O
                                                                               pact                                         pact
                                                S               S                               S                S

        Dudley Street /       AM        7.9      A     7.9      A        0.0   NO        7.9    A      7.9       A   0.0    NO
1
        Holt Avenue           PM        5.6      A     5.7      A        0.1   NO        5.7    A      5.8       A   0.1    NO

        Hamilton Blvd. /      AM       15.7      B    15.7      B        0.0   NO       17.1    B     17.1       B   0.0    NO
2
        Holt Avenue           PM       13.9      B    14.0      B        0.1   NO       14.0    B     14.1       B   0.1    NO
Note: Delay is shown in seconds.
Source: Linscott, Law & Greenspan, Engineers, Traffic Impact Study Holt Family Apartments Project, April 2013.


                                                       Table 14
                                               Project Trip Generation

                                  Daily Trip           AM Peak Hour Volumes                        PM Peak Hour Volumes
Land Use            Size
                                Ends Volumes          In         Out            Total           In            Out          Total

Apartment          62 DU              412              6            26           32             25            13            38
Total                                 412              6            26           32             25            13            38
Source: Linscott, Law & Greenspan, Engineers, Traffic Impact Study Holt Family Apartments Project, April 2013.


Existing + Project Conditions
The project's vehicle trips were estimated by applying standard trip generation rates based
upon ITE's Trip Generation, 9th Edition (2012). ITE Land Use Code 220 (Apartment) trip
generation rates were used to forecast project traffic volumes and were based upon rates per
number of dwelling units.

The project would generate a total of 412 vehicle trips, 32 during the AM peak hour and
38during the PM peak hour. Figure 7 shows the Existing + Project traffic volumes at study area
intersections. As shown in Table 13 above, application of the City's threshold criteria to the
"Existing + Project" scenario indicates that the proposed project is not expected to create
significant impacts at either of the study intersections. The intersection of Dudley Street/Holt
Avenue would continue to operate at LOS A during both the AM and PM peak hours. Delays at
the Dudley Street/Holt Avenue intersection would increase by 0.1 second in the PM peak hour.
The intersection of Hamilton Boulevard/Holt Avenue would continue to operate at LOS B
during both the AM and PM peak hours. Delays at Hamilton Boulevard/Holt Avenue would
increase by 0.1 second in the PM peak hour. As such, impacts to study area intersections in the
Existing + Project scenario would be less than significant.




                                                                                                                 City of Pomona
                                                                55
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




Basemap Source: Linscott, Law & Greenspan Engineers, 2013




                                              Existing Traffic Volumes       Figure 6
                                                                         City of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




Basemap Source: Linscott, Law & Greenspan Engineers, 2013




                                     Existing + Project Traffic Volumes       Figure 7
                                                                          City of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


Future without Project Conditions
The Future without Project Conditions scenario analyzes the intersection conditions with the
addition of traffic generated by the growth in traffic due to the combined effects of continuing
development, intensification of existing developments and other factors (i.e. ambient growth).
The delay at the study area intersections is incrementally increased with the addition of ambient
traffic growth. As shown in Table 13 above, the Dudley Street/Holt Avenue intersection would
continue to operate at LOS A, and delays would be 7.9 seconds in the AM peak hour and 5.7
seconds in the PM peak hour. The Hamilton Boulevard/Holt Avenue intersection would
continue to operate at LOS B, and delays would be 17.1 seconds in the AM peak hour and 14.0
in the PM peak hour. Figure 8 shows the Future without Project traffic volumes at the study
area intersections.

Future + Project Conditions
As shown in Table 13 above, application of the City's threshold criteria to the "Future + Project"
scenario indicates that the proposed project is not expected to create significant impacts at either
of the study intersections. Figure 9 shows the Future + Project traffic volumes at study area
intersections. The intersection of Dudley Street/Holt Avenue would continue to operate at LOS
A during both the AM and PM peak hours. Delays at the Dudley Street/Holt Avenue
intersection would increase by 0.1 second in the PM peak hour. The intersection of Hamilton
Boulevard/Holt Avenue would continue to operate at LOS B during both the AM and PM peak
hours. Delays at Hamilton Boulevard/Holt Avenue would increase by 0.1 second in the PM
peak hour. As such, impacts to study area intersections in the Future + Project scenario would
be less than significant.

b) The Congestion Management Program (CMP) is a state-mandated program that was enacted
by the California State Legislature with the passage of Proposition 111 in 1990. The program is
intended to address the impact of local growth on the regional transportation system.

As required by the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County, a Traffic
Impact Assessment (TIA) has been prepared to determine the potential impacts on designated
monitoring locations on the CMP highway system. The analysis has been prepared in
accordance with procedures outlined in the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles
County, County of Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority, 2010. According to
Section D.9.1 (Appendix D, page D-6) of the 2010 CMP manual, the criteria for determining a
significant transportation impact is listed below:

        "A significant transportation impact occurs when the proposed project increases
        traffic demand on a CMP facility by 2% of capacity (V/C > 0.02), causing or
        worsening LOS F (V/C > 1.00)."

The CMP impact criteria apply for analysis of both intersection and freeway monitoring
locations.

Intersections
The following CMP intersection monitoring locations in the project vicinity have been
identified:

                                                                                     City of Pomona
                                                 58
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




Basemap Source: Linscott, Law & Greenspan Engineers, 2013




                                 Future without Project Traffic Volumes       Figure 8
                                                                          City of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




Basemap Source: Linscott, Law & Greenspan Engineers, 2013




                                    Future with Project Traffic Volumes       Figure 9
                                                                          City of Pomona
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


        CMP Station               Intersection
        No. 124                   Arrow Highway/Garey Avenue
        No. 125                   Corona Expressway/Garey Avenue
        No. 126                   Corona Expressway/Mission Boulevard

The CMP TIA guidelines require that intersection monitoring locations must be examined if the
proposed project will add 50 or more trips during either the AM or PM weekday peak hours.

The proposed project will not add 50 or more trips during either the AM or PM weekday peak
hours (i.e., of adjacent street traffic) at the CMP monitoring intersections in the project vicinity,
which is stated in the CMP manual as the threshold criteria for a traffic impact assessment.
Therefore, no further review of potential impacts to intersection monitoring locations that are
part of the CMP highway system is required. Impacts to CMP intersections would be less than
significant.

Freeways
The following CMP freeway monitoring location has been identified in the project vicinity:

        CMP Station               Location
        No. 1020                  I-10 Freeway at Dudley Street


The CMP TIA guidelines require that freeway monitoring locations must be examined if the
proposed project will add 150 or more trips (in either direction) during either the AM or PM
weekday peak periods. The proposed project will not add 150 or more trips (in either direction)
during either the AM or PM weekday peak hours to CMP freeway monitoring locations which
is the threshold for preparing a traffic impact assessment, as stated in the CMP manual.
Therefore, no further review of potential impacts to freeway monitoring locations that are part
of the CMP highway system is required. Impacts to CMP intersections would be less than
significant.

c) The Brackett Field Airport, a general aviation airport, is located approximately 1.7 miles north
of the project site. A review of the Los Angeles County Airport Land Use Plan confirmed that
the project site is not within a designated fly zone. Therefore, the proposed project would not
change any air traffic patterns, increase the number of flights, impose any additional safety risks
for airport operations, or necessitate a change in location for the airfield. No impact would
occur.

d) Access to the project site would be consolidated to a single driveway, thus reducing potential
turning movement conflicts for traffic along Holt Avenue and opposing driveways situated on
the north side of Holt Avenue. Vehicular access to the site would be provided via a single
driveway located in essentially the same location as the existing easterly site driveway on Holt
Avenue. The project site driveway would be modified to accommodate two-way traffic and full
access (i.e., left-turn and right-turn ingress and egress turning movements). An existing two-
way left-turn lane is provided on Holt Avenue that can provide a storage area for left-turning
vehicles into the site. Additionally, the project site access has been configured to include a
driveway throat sufficient in length to preclude inbound vehicle queuing back out onto the


                                                                                       City of Pomona
                                                   61
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


public right-of-way. The project site driveway would be constructed to City of Pomona design
standards. As such, the project does not include any design features that would result in safety
hazards. In addition, the project is located in an urban area and would not result in a conflict
with an incompatible use. No impact would occur.

e) The proposed project is an infill project within the City of Pomona. As such, the proposed
project would not interfere with existing emergency access routes and would comply with all
Los Angeles County Fire Department standards for on-site emergency access. The project's
impact on emergency vehicle access would be less than significant.

f) As required by the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County, a review has
been made of the potential impacts of the project on transit service. As previously discussed,
existing transit service is provided in the vicinity of the proposed project.

The project trip generation was adjusted by values set forth in the CMP (i.e., person trips equal
1.4 times vehicle trips, and transit trips equal 3.5 percent of the total person trips) to estimate
transit trip generation. Pursuant to the CMP guidelines, the proposed project is forecast to
generate demand for 2 transit trips during the weekday AM peak hour and 2 transit trips
during the weekday PM peak hour. Over a 24-hour period, the proposed project is forecast to
generate demand for 20 daily transit trips. Therefore, the calculations are as follows:

        AM Peak Hour = 32 × 1.4 × 0.035 = 2 Transit Trips
        PM Peak Hour = 38 × 1.4 × 0.035 = 2 Transit Trips
        Daily Trips = 412 × 1.4 × 0.035 = 20 Transit Trips

Two transit lines and routes are provided adjacent to or in close proximity the project site.
These two transit lines provide services for an average of (i.e., average of the directional number
of buses/trains during the peak hours) generally two buses/trains during the weekday AM
peak hour and roughly two buses/trains during the weekday PM peak hour. Therefore, based
on the above calculated weekday AM and PM peak hour trips, this would correspond to no
more than one additional transit rider per bus/train. It is anticipated that the existing transit
service in the project area would adequately accommodate the increase of project generated
transit trips. Thus, given the low number of project-generated transit trips per bus/train,
impacts to existing or future transit services in the project area would be less than significant.

Furthermore, the proposed project would encourage the use of bicycles as a transportation
mode by providing ample and safe bicycle parking facilities. The project site is also located
within the vicinity of four of the City of Pomona's planned bicycle facilities. The proposed
project would also promote walkability by including extensive green and landscape space
throughout the site with connections to the adjacent sidewalk provided along Holt Avenue.
Sidewalks along Holt Avenue would provide connectivity to other area corridors. Therefore,
the proposed project would be consistent with local plans and would facilitate the performance
of existing facilities. Impacts to bicycle and pedestrian facilities would be less than
significant.




                                                                                      City of Pomona
                                                 62
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                    Potentially
                                                                    Significant
                                                     Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                     Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                       Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XVII. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS --
      Would the project:
a) Exceed wastewater treatment
   requirements of the applicable Regional
   Water Quality Control Board?
b) Require or result in the construction of
   new water or wastewater treatment
   facilities or expansion of existing facilities,
   the construction of which could cause
   significant environmental effects?
c) Require or result in the construction of
   new storm water drainage facilities or
   expansion of existing facilities, the
   construction of which could cause
   significant environmental effects?
d) Have sufficient water supplies available to
   serve the project from existing
   entitlements and resources, or are new or
   expanded entitlements needed?
e) Result in a determination by the
   wastewater treatment provider which
   serves or may serve the project that it has
   adequate capacity to serve the project's
   projected demand in addition to the
   provider's existing commitments?
f)   Be served by a landfill with sufficient
     permitted capacity to accommodate the
     project's solid waste disposal needs?
g) Comply with federal, state, and local
   statutes and regulations related to solid
   waste?

a) The City of Pomona requires NPDES permits, as administered by the Regional Water Quality
Control Board (RWQCB), according to Federal regulations for both point source discharges (a
municipal or industrial discharge at a specific location or pipe) and nonpoint source discharges
(diffuse runoff of water from adjacent land uses) to surface water of the United States. For point
source discharges, such as sewer outfalls, each NPDES permit contains limits on allowable
concentrations and mass emissions of pollutants contained in the discharge. The proposed
project would be required to comply with all provisions of the NPDES program, as enforced by
the RWQCB. Therefore, the proposed project would not result in a violation of wastewater
treatment requirements and impacts would be less than significant.

b, e) Wastewater service within Pomona is provided by the City's Public Works Department.
Wastewater from the City's system is treated by the Los Angeles County Sanitation Districts

                                                                                           City of Pomona
                                                       63
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


(LACSD). The City's wastewater is treated and disposed of at the LACSD's Pomona Water
Reclamation Plant (PWRP). Located at 295 Humane Way in Pomona, the plant occupies
approximately 14 acres east of SR-57 and north of the Phillips Ranch development area. Sewage
effluent from the neighboring cities of La Verne and Claremont is also treated at the PWRP,
which currently has a design capacity of 15 million gallons per day (mgd). In 2012, the average
daily flow to the plant was approximately 8.4 mgd (Raza, 2013). Thus, the PWRP has an
available capacity of approximately 6.6 mgd. The PWRP currently serves an estimated 130,000
people; therefore, per capita wastewater generation is estimated to be 65 gallons per day. Based
on the estimate of 3.78 persons per household in the City of Pomona (DOF, 2012), the proposed
project would add approximately 234 new residents to the City. The addition of 234 new
residents would increase the demand for wastewater treatment by 15,210 gallons per day. With
an available capacity of 6.6 mgd, the PWRP would have sufficient capacity to serve the
wastewater needs of the proposed project. Therefore, the proposed project would not result in
the need for new wastewater treatment facilities, and impacts would be less than significant.

c) The proposed project would be required to prepare a Standard Urban Storm Water
Management Plan (SUSMP), which requires the integration of post-development BMPs into the
site's overall drainage system. Specifically, the SUSMP would require that post-development
peak storm water runoff discharge rates do not exceed the estimated pre-development rate. As
such, the proposed project would not increase storm water runoff volumes leaving the project
site and would not require the construction or expansion of off-site storm water infrastructure.
Impacts would be less than significant.

d) The City's current water supply portfolio is comprised of 68% groundwater, 16% imported
water, 15% local surface water, and 1% recycled water. It is projected that by 2035, the supply
mix will be 73% groundwater, 11% imported, 10% local surface water and 6% recycled water.
Table 15 shows projected average water supply and demand through the year 2035.

                                            Table 15
                        Projected Average Water Supply and Demand (AFY)

      Water Supply Sources                 2015            2020         2025     2030      2035

      Imported Water                       2,000           1,738        2,393    2,452     3,000

      Groundwater                         17,013          18,300        18,300   18,300    19,000

      Local Surface Water                  2,500           2,500        2,500    2,500     2,500

      Recycled Water                        100               750       1,000    1,500     1,500
      Total Supply                        21,703          23,288        24,193   24,752    26,000

      Total Demand*                       21,703          23,288        24,193   24,752    26,000

      Difference                             0                 0          0        0         0
      Source: City of Pomona. 2010 Urban Water Management Plan, 2011.
      * Demand assumes implementation of conservation programs.


The City's 2010 Urban Water Management Plan indicates that, due to its existing water rights
and groundwater storage agreements, an adequate supply of water should be available, with
normal conservation efforts, for projected demands through 2035 (City of Pomona, 2011).


                                                                                          City of Pomona
                                                         64
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




SCAG growth forecasts for the City anticipate a 2035 population of 197,400. The 2010 UWMP
(City of Pomona, 2011) estimated a 2035 population of 216,899 people. With this anticipated
growth, the UWMP projects that the City will have adequate water supply, with normal
conservation efforts, to meet demand through 2035 in average year, single dry year, and
multiple dry year scenarios. Development facilitated by the proposed project is expected to
increase the City's population by 234 people, which is line with SCAG projections. Forecasted
growth under the SCAG projections is less than anticipated in the 2010 UWMP by
approximately 19,500 people. Therefore, water supplies would be adequate to serve population
growth facilitated by the proposed project. Impacts to water supply would be less than
significant.

f) Currently, four landfills serve Pomona: (1) Olinda Alpha Landfill, (2) El Sobrante Landfill, (3)
Azusa Land Reclamation Company Landfill, and (4) Mid-Valley Sanitary Landfill. Table 16
summarizes the permitted daily throughput, estimated average waste quantities disposed, and
remaining capacity for these landfills.

About half of the City's waste was formerly taken to the Puente Hills Sanitary Landfill near
Whittier. However, that landfill closed in October 2013 and will be replaced by a waste-by-rail
system that will provide disposal to remote landfills, such as the Mesquite Regional Landfill in
Imperial County.


                                                  Table 16
                                        Solid Waste Disposal Facilities
                                           Permitted Daily        2011 Avg. Daily             Estimated
                                            Throughput            Waste Quantities         Remaining Daily
                    Facility                 (tons/day)             (tons/day)            Capacity (tons/day)
           Olinda Alpha Landfill
                                                 8,000                   5,112                    2,888
           (Orange County)
           El Sobrante Landfill
                                                16,054                   7,019                    10,942
           (Riverside County)
           Azusa Land Reclamation
                                                 6,500                    357                     6,143
           Company Landfill*
           Mid-Valley Sanitary
           Landfill (San Bernardino              7,500                   1,734                    5,766
           County)**
                                              Total                                               25,739
           Source:     Los Angeles Countywide Integrated Waste Management Plan, 2011; CalRecycle. Solid Waste
                       Information System Facility/Site Search:
                       http://www.calrecycle.ca.gov/SWFacilities/Directory/search.aspx.
           * The Azusa Land Reclamation Company Landfill is for construction and demolition materials, not for
                       municipal solid waste.
           ** Only Burrtec Waste Industries, a franchise commercial waste hauler in Pomona, is allowed to use the
           Mid-Valley Landfill under an agreement with San Bernardino County. Otherwise, San Bernardino County
           bans waste from out-of-county.


Assuming a solid waste generation rate of four pounds per day per unit for a multi-family
residential use (CalRecycle, 2012), the proposed project would generate 248 pounds per day of
solid waste, or 45.25 tons per year. It is anticipated that the waste-by-rail system to be


                                                                                                           City of Pomona
                                                            65
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


implemented upon closure of the Puente Hills landfill will maintain currently daily disposal
capacity levels, which would be adequate to serve the proposed project. Impacts to solid waste
disposal would be less than significant.

g) The proposed project would be required to comply with applicable elements of AB 1327,
Chapter 18 (California Solid Waste Reuse and Recycling Access Act of 1991), and other
applicable local, State, and Federal solid waste disposal standards. Impacts would be less than
significant.

                                                                  Potentially
                                                                  Significant
                                                   Potentially      Unless      Less than
                                                   Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                     Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
XVIII. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF
       SIGNIFICANCE --
a) Does the project have the potential to
   substantially reduce the habitat of a fish or
   wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife
   population to drop below self- sustaining
   levels, eliminate a plant or animal
   community, reduce the number or restrict
   the range of a rare or endangered plant or
   animal or eliminate important examples of
   the major periods of California history or
   prehistory?
b) Does the project have impacts that are
   individually limited, but cumulatively
   considerable? ("Cumulatively
   considerable" means that the incremental
   effects of a project are considerable when
   viewed in connection with the effects of
   past projects, the effects of other current
   projects, and the effects of probable future
   projects)?
c) Does the project have environmental
   effects which will cause substantial
   adverse effects on human beings, either
   directly or indirectly?

a) Construction activities would occur within a vacant parcel, which includes limited biological
resources. However, mitigation measures have been identified (Mitigation Measures BIO-1
and BIO-2) to reduce potential impacts to biological resources to a less than significant level.
Although the project area is not anticipated to contain any known paleontological or
archaeological resources, it may contain previously undetected subsurface archaeological
resources. Mitigation measures have been identified (Mitigation Measures CR-1) to mitigate
any impacts associated with the discovery of previously undetected subsurface cultural
resources during excavation activities. Adherence to this measure would reduce cultural
impacts to a less than significant level. After mitigation, potential impacts of the project on
these resources would be less than significant.

                                                                                         City of Pomona
                                                     66
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration




b) As presented in the discussion of environmental checklist Sections I through XVII, the project
would have no impact, a less than significant impact, or a less than significant impact after
mitigation with respect to all environmental issues. Due to the limited scope of direct physical
impacts to the environment associated with the proposed project, the impacts are project-
specific in nature. Consequently, the project along with other cumulative projects would
result in a less than significant cumulative impact with respect to all environmental issues.

c) The proposed project could result in potentially significant direct or indirect impacts to
humans. Refer to the Geology and Soils section in the above analysis. However, as described in
these sections, all impacts would be mitigated to a less than significant level. Therefore, with
implementation of the required measures, no substantial adverse effects on human beings
would occur as a result of the proposed project.




                                                                                   City of Pomona
                                                 67
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


REFERENCES

Bolster, B.C. Ed., Terrestrial Mammal Species of Special Concern in California, Big free-tailed bat,
        Nyctinomops macrotis. 1998. Available at:
        http://www.dfg.ca.gov/wildlife/nongame/ssc/docs/mammal/species/19.pdf.

Bolster, B.C. Ed., Terrestrial Mammal Species of Special Concern in California, Western Yellow Bat,
        Lasiurus xanthinus. 1998. Available at:
        http://www.dfg.ca.gov/wildlife/nongame/ssc/docs/mammal/species/12.pdf.

California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). January 2008. CEQA &
       Climate Change: Evaluating and Addressing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Projects
       Subject to the California Environmental Quality Act.

California Climate Action Registry (CCAR) General Reporting Protocol, Reporting Entity-Wide
       Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Version 3.1, January 2009.

California Department of Finance, Population and Housing Estimates for Cities, Counties, and the
       State, 2011-2012, with 2010 Census Benchmark. 2012. Available at:
       http://www.dof.ca.gov/research/demographic/reports/view.php#objCollapsiblePane
       lEstimatesAnchor

California Department of Fish and Wildlife, Natural Diversity Database, Special Vascular Plants,
       Bryophytes, and Lichens List. January 2013. Available at:
       http://www.dfg.ca.gov/wildlife/nongame/list.html.

California Department of Fish and Wildlife (formerly Department of Fish and Game). Stanislaus
       River Basin and Calaveras River Water Use Program, Threatened and Endangered Species
       Report, Western Mastiff Bat. March 1995. Available at:
       http://www.dfg.ca.gov/delta/reports/stanriver/sr449.asp.

California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones in
       LRA, Los Angeles County. September 2011. Available at: http://frap.fire.ca.gov/.

California Environmental Protection Agency, March 2006. Climate Action Team Report to
       Governor Schwarzenegger and the Legislature.
       http://www.climatechange.ca.gov/climate_action_team/reports/2006-04-
       03_FINAL_CAT_REPORT_EXECSUMMARY.PDF

California Geological Survey. Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zones, San Dimas Quadrangle.
       1999. Available at: http://www.conservation.ca.gov/cgs/rghm/ap/Pages/Index.aspx.

California Geological Survey. Seismic Hazard Zones Map, San Dimas Quadrangle. March 1999.
       Available at: http://www.conservation.ca.gov/cgs/rghm/ap/Pages/Index.aspx.




                                                                                           City of Pomona
                                                    68
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


CalRecycle, Residential Developments: Estimated Solid Waste Generation Rates. Accessed April
      2012. Available at:
      http://www.calrecycle.ca.gov/wastechar/WasteGenRates/Residential.htm.

CalRecycle, Solid Waste System Facility/Site Search. Accessed April 2013. Available at:
      http://www.calrecycle.ca.gov/SWFacilities/Directory/search.aspx.

Harris, Miller, Miller & Hanson. Transit Noise and Vibration Assessment, Chapter 12 Noise and
        Vibration During Construction. April 1995.

Federal Emergency Management Agency. Flood Insurance Rate Map. Los Angeles County, Map
       ID 06037C1725F. September 2008.

Linscott, Law, & Greenspan, Engineers. Traffic Impact Study, Holt Family Apartments Project.
       April 9, 2013.

Los Angeles, County of, Countywide Integrated Waste Management Plan, 2011 Annual Report.
      August 2012.

P & D Consultants, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, Cabrera Property, 942 W. Holt
       Avenue, Pomona, California 91768. October 9, 2008.

Pomona, City of, 2010 Urban Water Management Plan. July 2011.

Pomona, City of, General Plan. 1976.

Pomona, City of, Municipal Code. Accessed April 2013. Available at:
     http://www.ci.pomona.ca.us/index.php/government/city-hall/city-codes.

Pomona, City of, Public Works Department, Traffic Impact Study Guidelines. February 2012.

SCS Engineers. Off-site Groundwater Investigation Report, Calsol Inc. Facility, 123, 145, and 165
      North Hamilton Boulevard, Pomona, California. January 2008. Available at:
      http://www.envirostor.dtsc.ca.gov/public/profile_report.asp?global_id=60000137.

South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD). Air Quality Management Plan. 2012.

SCAQMD. CEQA Air Quality Handbook. November 1993.

SCAQMD. Final Localized Significance Threshold Methodology. June 2003. Revised July 2008.
    http://www.aqmd.gov/ceqa/handbook/LST/LST.html

SCAQMD. Localized Significance Threshold Look Up Tables. Revised October 2009. Available at:
    http://www.aqmd.gov/ceqa/handbook/LST/LST.html.




                                                                                    City of Pomona
                                                 69
West Holt Avenue Apartment Project
Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration


Southern California Association of Governments. Adopted 2012 Regional Transportation Plan
       Growth Forecast. Accessed April 2012. Available at:
       http://www.scag.ca.gov/forecast/index.htm

Southern California Association of Governments. 2012 ­ 2035 Regional Transportation Plan ­
       Sustainable Communities Strategy. April 2012. Available at:
       http://rtpscs.scag.ca.gov/Pages/2012-2035-RTP-SCS.aspx

Southern California Association of Governments. Profile of the City of Pomona. May 2011.
       Available at:
       http://www.scag.ca.gov/resources/pdfs/2011LP/LosAngeles/Pomona.pdf

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Wetlands Inventory, Wetlands Mapper. Available
        online: http://www.fws.gov/wetlands/Data/Mapper.html.

Personal Communications

Arends, Ilona, Community Services Manager, Parks and Recreation Division, City of Pomona,
      May 25, 2012.

Terry, Bruce, Design Insites, LLC, email communication, August 14, 2012.

Young, Ronald. Pomona Unified School District, March 11, 2013.

Raza, Adrianna. Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County, February 12, 2013.




                                                                                 City of Pomona
                                                 70
               Appendix A
Air Quality and Greenhouse Gas
          Emissions Calculations
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2011.1.1                                                                                                        Date: 4/16/2013

                                                              West Holt Avenue Apartments
                                                                 South Coast Air Basin, Annual



1.0 Project Characteristics

 1.1 Land Usage

                  Land Uses                            Size                             Metric

            Apartments Low Rise                         62                           Dwelling Unit


 1.2 Other Project Characteristics
   Urbanization      Urban                   Wind Speed (m/s)         2.2                    Utility Company   Southern California Edison

   Climate Zone      9                       Precipitation Freq (Days) 31


 1.3 User Entered Comments

   Project Characteristics -
   Land Use - Lot acreage based on actual size of project site. Population based on California Department of Finance estimates of persons per household
   within the City of Pomona.
   Construction Phase - Demolition 10/1/2013 - 10/28/2013, Site Prep 10/29/2013 - 10/31/2013, Grading 11/1/2013 - 11/8/2013, Building 11/9/2013 -
   9/12/2014, Paving 9/13/2014 - 9/28/2014, Arch Coat 9/29/2014 - 10/12/2014. Maintained default total days for each phase.
   Grading - Site is flat. Assume they will balance soils on-site
   Demolition - Demolition of mobile homes assumes 50% site coverage for the mobile home parcel.
   Vehicle Trips - Trip rate based on daily trip rate used in traffic study prepared by Linscott, Law & Greenspan, Engineers.

                                                                                                                                                     1 of 26
2.0 Emissions Summary

 2.1 Overall Construction

  Unmitigated Construction

              ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                            PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

     Year                                          tons/yr                                                                           MT/yr

     2013     0.18    1.13   0.78   0.00    0.07             0.07   0.14     0.01       0.07     0.08       0.00     122.05    122.05        0.01   0.00   122.35

     2014     0.73    2.69   2.15   0.00    0.06             0.17   0.23     0.00       0.17     0.17       0.00     334.35    334.35        0.04   0.00   335.19

    Total     0.91    3.82   2.93   0.00    0.13             0.24   0.37     0.01       0.24     0.25       0.00     456.40    456.40        0.05   0.00   457.54




  Mitigated Construction

              ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                            PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

     Year                                          tons/yr                                                                           MT/yr

     2013     0.18    1.13   0.78   0.00    0.03             0.07   0.10     0.01       0.07     0.08       0.00     122.05    122.05        0.01   0.00   122.35

     2014     0.73    2.69   2.15   0.00    0.00             0.17   0.17     0.00       0.17     0.17       0.00     334.35    334.35        0.04   0.00   335.19

    Total     0.91    3.82   2.93   0.00    0.03             0.24   0.27     0.01       0.24     0.25       0.00     456.40    456.40        0.05   0.00   457.54




                                                                                                                                                                    2 of 26
2.2 Overall Operational

 Unmitigated Operational

             ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                          PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                       tons/yr                                                                              MT/yr

    Area     0.49   0.02   1.36   0.00                     0.00   0.07                0.00     0.07       6.59     39.51      46.09           0.02   0.00   46.83

   Energy    0.01   0.05   0.02   0.00                     0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     127.73    127.73           0.00   0.00   128.52

   Mobile    0.41   0.99   4.11   0.01    0.64             0.04   0.67     0.01       0.04     0.05       0.00     582.48    582.48           0.03   0.00   583.10

   Waste                                                   0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       5.79      0.00      5.79            0.34   0.00   12.97

   Water                                                   0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     23.57      23.57           0.12   0.00   27.26

    Total    0.91   1.06   5.49   0.01    0.64             0.04   0.74     0.01       0.04     0.12      12.38     773.29    785.66           0.51   0.00   798.68




                                                                                                                                                                     3 of 26
 2.2 Overall Operational

   Mitigated Operational

               ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

    Category                                        tons/yr                                                                              MT/yr

     Area      0.49    0.02   1.36   0.00                     0.00   0.07                0.00     0.07       6.59     39.51      46.09           0.02   0.00   46.83

    Energy     0.01    0.05   0.02   0.00                     0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     127.73    127.73           0.00   0.00   128.52

     Mobile    0.41    0.99   4.11   0.01    0.64             0.04   0.67     0.01       0.04     0.05       0.00     582.48    582.48           0.03   0.00   583.10

     Waste                                                    0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       5.79      0.00      5.79            0.34   0.00   12.97

     Water                                                    0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     23.57      23.57           0.12   0.00   27.26

     Total     0.91    1.06   5.49   0.01    0.64             0.04   0.74     0.01       0.04     0.12      12.38     773.29    785.66           0.51   0.00   798.68




3.0 Construction Detail

 3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction




                                                                                                                                                                        4 of 26
3.2 Demolition - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                           tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

 Fugitive Dust                                0.01             0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

  Off-Road       0.05   0.38   0.24   0.00                     0.02   0.02                0.02     0.02       0.00     35.79     35.79           0.00   0.00   35.88

    Total        0.05   0.38   0.24   0.00    0.01             0.02   0.03     0.00       0.02     0.02       0.00     35.79     35.79           0.00   0.00   35.88




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                           tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

   Hauling       0.00   0.03   0.02   0.00    0.02             0.00   0.02     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     3.88      3.88            0.00   0.00   3.88

   Vendor        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Worker        0.00   0.00   0.01   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     1.19      1.19            0.00   0.00   1.19

    Total        0.00   0.03   0.03   0.00    0.02             0.00   0.02     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     5.07      5.07            0.00   0.00   5.07




                                                                                                                                                                       5 of 26
3.2 Demolition - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                           tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

 Fugitive Dust                                0.01             0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

  Off-Road       0.05   0.38   0.24   0.00                     0.02   0.02                0.02     0.02       0.00     35.79     35.79           0.00   0.00   35.88

    Total        0.05   0.38   0.24   0.00    0.01             0.02   0.03     0.00       0.02     0.02       0.00     35.79     35.79           0.00   0.00   35.88




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                           tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

   Hauling       0.00   0.03   0.02   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     3.88      3.88            0.00   0.00   3.88

   Vendor        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Worker        0.00   0.00   0.01   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     1.19      1.19            0.00   0.00   1.19

    Total        0.00   0.03   0.03   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     5.07      5.07            0.00   0.00   5.07




                                                                                                                                                                       6 of 26
3.3 Site Preparation - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2        CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                          tons/yr                                                                            MT/yr

 Fugitive Dust                                0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

   Off-Road      0.01   0.05   0.03   0.00                     0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     5.33      5.33           0.00   0.00   5.34

    Total        0.01   0.05   0.03   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     5.33      5.33           0.00   0.00   5.34




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2        CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                          tons/yr                                                                            MT/yr

   Hauling       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

   Worker        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.11      0.11           0.00   0.00   0.11

    Total        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.11      0.11           0.00   0.00   0.11




                                                                                                                                                                     7 of 26
3.3 Site Preparation - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2        CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                          tons/yr                                                                            MT/yr

 Fugitive Dust                                0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

   Off-Road      0.01   0.05   0.03   0.00                     0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     5.33      5.33           0.00   0.00   5.34

    Total        0.01   0.05   0.03   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     5.33      5.33           0.00   0.00   5.34




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2        CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                          tons/yr                                                                            MT/yr

   Hauling       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

   Worker        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.11      0.11           0.00   0.00   0.11

    Total        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.11      0.11           0.00   0.00   0.11




                                                                                                                                                                     8 of 26
3.4 Grading - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                           tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

 Fugitive Dust                                0.02             0.00   0.02     0.01       0.00     0.01       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

  Off-Road       0.01   0.11   0.07   0.00                     0.01   0.01                0.01     0.01       0.00     10.41     10.41           0.00   0.00   10.44

    Total        0.01   0.11   0.07   0.00    0.02             0.01   0.03     0.01       0.01     0.02       0.00     10.41     10.41           0.00   0.00   10.44




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                           tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

   Hauling       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Worker        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.27      0.27            0.00   0.00   0.28

    Total        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.27      0.27            0.00   0.00   0.28




                                                                                                                                                                       9 of 26
3.4 Grading - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                           tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

 Fugitive Dust                                0.02             0.00   0.02     0.01       0.00     0.01       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

  Off-Road       0.01   0.11   0.07   0.00                     0.01   0.01                0.01     0.01       0.00     10.41     10.41           0.00   0.00   10.44

    Total        0.01   0.11   0.07   0.00    0.02             0.01   0.03     0.01       0.01     0.02       0.00     10.41     10.41           0.00   0.00   10.44




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                           tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

   Hauling       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Worker        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.27      0.27            0.00   0.00   0.28

    Total        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.27      0.27            0.00   0.00   0.28




                                                                                                                                                                       10 of 26
3.5 Building Construction - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx    CO       SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                          tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

  Off-Road   0.10    0.53   0.36     0.00                     0.03   0.03                0.03     0.03       0.00     54.25     54.25           0.01   0.00   54.41

    Total    0.10    0.53   0.36     0.00                     0.03   0.03                0.03     0.03       0.00     54.25     54.25           0.01   0.00   54.41




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx    CO       SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                          tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Vendor    0.00    0.02   0.01     0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     3.18      3.18            0.00   0.00   3.18

   Worker    0.00    0.00   0.05     0.00    0.01             0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     7.63      7.63            0.00   0.00   7.64

    Total    0.00    0.02   0.06     0.00    0.01             0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     10.81     10.81           0.00   0.00   10.82




                                                                                                                                                                      11 of 26
3.5 Building Construction - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                            PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                         tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

  Off-Road    0.10   0.53    0.36   0.00                     0.03   0.03                0.03     0.03       0.00     54.25     54.25           0.01   0.00   54.41

    Total     0.10   0.53    0.36   0.00                     0.03   0.03                0.03     0.03       0.00     54.25     54.25           0.01   0.00   54.41




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                            PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                         tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Vendor     0.00   0.02    0.01   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     3.18      3.18            0.00   0.00   3.18

   Worker     0.00   0.00    0.05   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     7.63      7.63            0.00   0.00   7.64

    Total     0.00   0.02    0.06   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     10.81     10.81           0.00   0.00   10.82




                                                                                                                                                                     12 of 26
3.5 Building Construction - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx    CO       SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                          tons/yr                                                                              MT/yr

  Off-Road   0.43    2.44   1.75     0.00                     0.15   0.15                0.15     0.15       0.00     268.30    268.30           0.04   0.00   269.04

    Total    0.43    2.44   1.75     0.00                     0.15   0.15                0.15     0.15       0.00     268.30    268.30           0.04   0.00   269.04




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx    CO       SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                          tons/yr                                                                              MT/yr

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00    0.00

   Vendor    0.01    0.09   0.06     0.00    0.01             0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     15.77      15.77           0.00   0.00   15.78

   Worker    0.02    0.02   0.23     0.00    0.05             0.00   0.05     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     37.07      37.07           0.00   0.00   37.12

    Total    0.03    0.11   0.29     0.00    0.06             0.00   0.06     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     52.84      52.84           0.00   0.00   52.90




                                                                                                                                                                        13 of 26
3.5 Building Construction - 2014

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                            PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                         tons/yr                                                                              MT/yr

  Off-Road    0.43   2.44    1.75   0.00                     0.15   0.15                0.15     0.15       0.00     268.30    268.30           0.04   0.00   269.04

    Total     0.43   2.44    1.75   0.00                     0.15   0.15                0.15     0.15       0.00     268.30    268.30           0.04   0.00   269.04




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                            PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                         tons/yr                                                                              MT/yr

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00    0.00

   Vendor     0.01   0.09    0.06   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     15.77      15.77           0.00   0.00   15.78

   Worker     0.02   0.02    0.23   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     37.07      37.07           0.00   0.00   37.12

    Total     0.03   0.11    0.29   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     52.84      52.84           0.00   0.00   52.90




                                                                                                                                                                       14 of 26
3.6 Paving - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx    CO       SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                          tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

  Off-Road   0.02    0.12   0.08     0.00                     0.01   0.01                0.01     0.01       0.00     10.85     10.85           0.00   0.00   10.89

   Paving    0.00                                             0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

    Total    0.02    0.12   0.08     0.00                     0.01   0.01                0.01     0.01       0.00     10.85     10.85           0.00   0.00   10.89




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx    CO       SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                          tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Vendor    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Worker    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.68      0.68            0.00   0.00   0.68

    Total    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.68      0.68            0.00   0.00   0.68




                                                                                                                                                                      15 of 26
3.6 Paving - 2014

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                            PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                         tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

  Off-Road    0.02   0.12    0.08   0.00                     0.01   0.01                0.01     0.01       0.00     10.85     10.85           0.00   0.00   10.89

   Paving     0.00                                           0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

    Total     0.02   0.12    0.08   0.00                     0.01   0.01                0.01     0.01       0.00     10.85     10.85           0.00   0.00   10.89




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                            PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Category                                         tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Vendor     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00

   Worker     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.68      0.68            0.00   0.00   0.68

    Total     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.68      0.68            0.00   0.00   0.68




                                                                                                                                                                     16 of 26
3.7 Architectural Coating - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                   ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2        CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                            tons/yr                                                                            MT/yr

 Archit. Coating   0.24                                          0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

   Off-Road        0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00                     0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     1.28      1.28           0.00   0.00   1.28

     Total         0.24   0.01   0.01   0.00                     0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     1.28      1.28           0.00   0.00   1.28




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                   ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2        CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                            tons/yr                                                                            MT/yr

    Hauling        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

    Vendor         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

    Worker         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.41      0.41           0.00   0.00   0.41

     Total         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.41      0.41           0.00   0.00   0.41




                                                                                                                                                                       17 of 26
 3.7 Architectural Coating - 2014

   Mitigated Construction On-Site

                    ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2        CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                 PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

    Category                                            tons/yr                                                                            MT/yr

  Archit. Coating   0.24                                          0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

    Off-Road        0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00                     0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     1.28      1.28           0.00   0.00   1.28

      Total         0.24   0.01   0.01   0.00                     0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     1.28      1.28           0.00   0.00   1.28




   Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                    ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2        CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                 PM10         PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

    Category                                            tons/yr                                                                            MT/yr

     Hauling        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

     Vendor         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00

     Worker         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.41      0.41           0.00   0.00   0.41

      Total         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00             0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.41      0.41           0.00   0.00   0.41




4.0 Mobile Detail

 4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile
                                                                                                                                                                        18 of 26
                  ROG         NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive     Exhaust       PM10      Fugitive    Exhaust   PM2.5      Bio- CO2     NBio-      Total CO2         CH4       N2O        CO2e
                                                      PM10         PM10         Total      PM2.5       PM2.5     Total                  CO2

    Category                                                 tons/yr                                                                                         MT/yr

    Mitigated      0.41       0.99     4.11   0.01    0.64             0.04     0.67       0.01        0.04     0.05         0.00       582.48         582.48        0.03      0.00       583.10

   Unmitigated     0.41       0.99     4.11   0.01    0.64             0.04     0.67       0.01        0.04     0.05         0.00       582.48         582.48        0.03      0.00       583.10

      Total        NA         NA       NA     NA       NA              NA        NA         NA          NA       NA          NA          NA             NA           NA        NA          NA




 4.2 Trip Summary Information

                                                                       Average Daily Trip Rate                                   Unmitigated                                  Mitigated
                        Land Use                      Weekday                  Saturday       Sunday                         Annual VMT                                      Annual VMT

                 Apartments Low Rise                   412.30                   412.30               412.30                      1,170,981                                   1,170,981
                          Total                        412.30                   412.30               412.30                      1,170,981                                   1,170,981



 4.3 Trip Type Information

                                                                               Miles                                                         Trip %

                        Land Use                     H-W or C-W               H-S or C-C          H-O or C-NW      H-W or C-W            H-S or C-C             H-O or C-NW
                 Apartments Low Rise                    10.80                    7.30                 7.50               40.20                 19.20                 40.60



5.0 Energy Detail

                                                                                                                                                                                                   19 of 26
5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy




                   ROG       NOx           CO            SO2         Fugitive    Exhaust         PM10           Fugitive     Exhaust         PM2.5         Bio- CO2          NBio-     Total CO2            CH4            N2O            CO2e
                                                                      PM10        PM10           Total           PM2.5        PM2.5           Total                          CO2

   Category                                                                 tons/yr                                                                                                                 MT/yr

  Electricity                                                                         0.00        0.00                            0.00        0.00             0.00          64.21          64.21           0.00           0.00           64.61
  Mitigated
  Electricity                                                                         0.00        0.00                            0.00        0.00             0.00          64.21          64.21           0.00           0.00           64.61
 Unmitigated
  NaturalGas       0.01      0.05          0.02          0.00                         0.00        0.00                            0.00        0.00             0.00          63.52          63.52           0.00           0.00           63.91
   Mitigated
 NaturalGas        0.01      0.05          0.02          0.00                         0.00        0.00                            0.00        0.00             0.00          63.52          63.52           0.00           0.00           63.91
 Unmitigated
    Total           NA        NA           NA            NA            NA             NA              NA             NA           NA              NA             NA            NA            NA             NA              NA             NA



5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas

 Unmitigated

                 NaturalGas Use     ROG           NOx           CO           SO2           Fugitive        Exhaust        PM10         Fugitive        Exhaust        PM2.5     Bio- CO2            NBio-     Total CO2            CH4            N2O    CO2e
                                                                                            PM10            PM10          Total         PM2.5           PM2.5          Total                        CO2

  Land Use           kBTU                                                                        tons/yr                                                                                                                   MT/yr

Apartments Low   1.19037e+006       0.01          0.05          0.02         0.00                           0.00          0.00                          0.00          0.00           0.00           63.52          63.52           0.00           0.00   63.91
     Rise
    Total                           0.01          0.05          0.02         0.00                           0.00          0.00                          0.00          0.00           0.00           63.52          63.52           0.00           0.00   63.91




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20 of 26
5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas

 Mitigated

                 NaturalGas Use    ROG    NOx              CO     SO2     Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10       Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                                           PM10       PM10           Total       PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

  Land Use           kBTU                                                       tons/yr                                                                                    MT/yr

Apartments Low   1.19037e+006      0.01   0.05             0.02   0.00                    0.00           0.00               0.00     0.00       0.00     63.52     63.52           0.00   0.00   63.91
     Rise
    Total                          0.01   0.05             0.02   0.00                    0.00           0.00               0.00     0.00       0.00     63.52     63.52           0.00   0.00   63.91



5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity

 Unmitigated

                 Electricity Use   ROG    NOx              CO     SO2    Total CO2        CH4            N2O     CO2e


  Land Use            kWh                        tons/yr                                         MT/yr

Apartments Low      220738                                                 64.21          0.00           0.00    64.61
     Rise
    Total                                                                  64.21          0.00           0.00    64.61




                                                                                                                                                                                          21 of 26
 5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity

   Mitigated

                   Electricity Use      ROG          NOx             CO           SO2        Total CO2            CH4            N2O           CO2e


    Land Use            kWh                                tons/yr                                                       MT/yr

  Apartments Low      220738                                                                      64.21           0.00           0.00          64.61
       Rise
      Total                                                                                       64.21           0.00           0.00          64.61




6.0 Area Detail

 6.1 Mitigation Measures Area




                    ROG          NOx          CO            SO2           Fugitive    Exhaust             PM10       Fugitive       Exhaust        PM2.5      Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                                           PM10        PM10               Total       PM2.5          PM2.5          Total                CO2

     Category                                                                    tons/yr                                                                                                   MT/yr

     Mitigated       0.49        0.02         1.36          0.00                           0.00           0.07                          0.00           0.07     6.59     39.51     46.09           0.02   0.00   46.83

   Unmitigated       0.49        0.02         1.36          0.00                           0.00           0.07                          0.00           0.07     6.59     39.51     46.09           0.02   0.00   46.83

      Total          NA          NA           NA            NA              NA             NA              NA             NA            NA             NA       NA        NA        NA             NA     NA      NA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22 of 26
6.2 Area by SubCategory

 Unmitigated

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10       PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

 SubCategory                                       tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

 Architectural   0.02                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00
   Coating
  Consumer       0.22                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00
  Products
   Hearth        0.21   0.01   0.39   0.00                   0.00   0.06                0.00     0.06       6.59     37.97     44.55           0.02   0.00   45.26

 Landscaping     0.03   0.01   0.97   0.00                   0.00   0.01                0.00     0.01       0.00     1.54      1.54            0.00   0.00   1.58

    Total        0.48   0.02   1.36   0.00                   0.00   0.07                0.00     0.07       6.59     39.51     46.09           0.02   0.00   46.84




 Mitigated

                 ROG    NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive   Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-   Total CO2         CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                              PM10       PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

 SubCategory                                       tons/yr                                                                             MT/yr

 Architectural   0.02                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00
   Coating
  Consumer       0.22                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00
  Products
   Hearth        0.21   0.01   0.39   0.00                   0.00   0.06                0.00     0.06       6.59     37.97     44.55           0.02   0.00   45.26

 Landscaping     0.03   0.01   0.97   0.00                   0.00   0.01                0.00     0.01       0.00     1.54      1.54            0.00   0.00   1.58

    Total        0.48   0.02   1.36   0.00                   0.00   0.07                0.00     0.07       6.59     39.51     46.09           0.02   0.00   46.84




                                                                                                                                                                     23 of 26
7.0 Water Detail

 7.1 Mitigation Measures Water




                    ROG          NOx             CO          SO2       Total CO2         CH4            N2O           CO2e


     Category                          tons/yr                                                  MT/yr

     Mitigated                                                             23.57         0.12           0.00          27.26

   Unmitigated                                                             23.57         0.12           0.00          27.26

      Total          NA          NA              NA          NA             NA           NA             NA             NA



 7.2 Water by Land Use

   Unmitigated

                   Indoor/Outdoor      ROG            NOx             CO           SO2     Total CO2           CH4            N2O    CO2e
                        Use

    Land Use           Mgal                                 tons/yr                                                   MT/yr

  Apartments Low     4.03955 /                                                                  23.57          0.12           0.00   27.26
       Rise          2.54667
      Total                                                                                     23.57          0.12           0.00   27.26




                                                                                                                                             24 of 26
 7.2 Water by Land Use

   Mitigated

                   Indoor/Outdoor      ROG            NOx             CO          SO2     Total CO2           CH4            N2O    CO2e
                        Use

    Land Use           Mgal                                 tons/yr                                                  MT/yr

  Apartments Low     4.03955 /                                                                 23.57          0.12           0.00   27.26
       Rise          2.54667
      Total                                                                                    23.57          0.12           0.00   27.26




8.0 Waste Detail

 8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste




   Category/Year

                    ROG          NOx             CO          SO2       Total CO2        CH4            N2O           CO2e


                                       tons/yr                                                 MT/yr

     Mitigated                                                             5.79         0.34           0.00          12.97

   Unmitigated                                                             5.79         0.34           0.00          12.97

      Total          NA          NA              NA          NA            NA           NA             NA             NA




                                                                                                                                            25 of 26
 8.2 Waste by Land Use

   Unmitigated

                    Waste     ROG   NOx             CO   SO2   Total CO2   CH4            N2O    CO2e
                   Disposed

    Land Use         tons                 tons/yr                                 MT/yr

  Apartments Low    28.52                                        5.79      0.34           0.00   12.97
       Rise
      Total                                                      5.79      0.34           0.00   12.97




   Mitigated

                    Waste     ROG   NOx             CO   SO2   Total CO2   CH4            N2O    CO2e
                   Disposed

    Land Use         tons                 tons/yr                                 MT/yr

  Apartments Low    28.52                                        5.79      0.34           0.00   12.97
       Rise
      Total                                                      5.79      0.34           0.00   12.97




9.0 Vegetation




                                                                                                         26 of 26
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2011.1.1                                                                                                        Date: 4/16/2013

                                                              West Holt Avenue Apartments
                                                                South Coast Air Basin, Summer



1.0 Project Characteristics

 1.1 Land Usage

                  Land Uses                            Size                             Metric

            Apartments Low Rise                         62                           Dwelling Unit


 1.2 Other Project Characteristics
   Urbanization      Urban                   Wind Speed (m/s)         2.2                    Utility Company   Southern California Edison

   Climate Zone      9                       Precipitation Freq (Days) 31


 1.3 User Entered Comments

   Project Characteristics -
   Land Use - Lot acreage based on actual size of project site. Population based on California Department of Finance estimates of persons per household
   within the City of Pomona.
   Construction Phase - Demolition 10/1/2013 - 10/28/2013, Site Prep 10/29/2013 - 10/31/2013, Grading 11/1/2013 - 11/8/2013, Building 11/9/2013 -
   9/12/2014, Paving 9/13/2014 - 9/28/2014, Arch Coat 9/29/2014 - 10/12/2014. Maintained default total days for each phase.
   Grading - Site is flat. Assume they will balance soils on-site
   Demolition - Demolition of mobile homes assumes 50% site coverage for the mobile home parcel.
   Vehicle Trips - Trip rate based on daily trip rate used in traffic study prepared by Linscott, Law & Greenspan, Engineers.

                                                                                                                                                     1 of 22
2.0 Emissions Summary

 2.1 Overall Construction (Maximum Daily Emission)

  Unmitigated Construction

              ROG     NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2         CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                              PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

     Year                                            lb/day                                                                               lb/day

    2013      5.56    41.27   26.00   0.04    6.68            2.41   8.63     3.31       2.40     5.26       0.00     4,514.21     0.00            0.50   0.00   4,524.69

    2014      48.94   27.90   22.43   0.04    0.65            2.05   2.39     0.01       2.05     2.05       0.00     3,898.05     0.00            0.46   0.00   3,907.65

    Total      NA      NA      NA     NA       NA             NA      NA       NA         NA       NA        NA         NA          NA             NA     NA       NA




  Mitigated Construction

              ROG     NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2         CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                              PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

     Year                                            lb/day                                                                               lb/day

    2013      5.56    41.27   26.00   0.04    6.56            2.41   8.50     3.31       2.40     5.26       0.00     4,514.21     0.00            0.50   0.00   4,524.69

    2014      48.94   27.90   22.43   0.04    0.03            2.05   2.06     0.01       2.05     2.05       0.00     3,898.05     0.00            0.46   0.00   3,907.65

    Total      NA      NA      NA     NA       NA             NA      NA       NA         NA       NA        NA         NA          NA             NA     NA       NA




                                                                                                                                                                         2 of 22
 2.2 Overall Operational

   Unmitigated Operational

               ROG     NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                              PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

    Category                                         lb/day                                                                            lb/day

     Area      8.14    0.37   25.86   0.05                    0.00   3.31                0.00     3.31      437.52    1,125.32                  1.74   0.03   1,607.73

    Energy     0.04    0.30   0.13    0.00                    0.00   0.02                0.00     0.02                383.68                    0.01   0.01   386.02

     Mobile    2.25    5.34   22.78   0.04    3.88            0.21   4.09     0.05       0.20     0.26                3,708.18                  0.18          3,711.85

     Total     10.43   6.01   48.77   0.09    3.88            0.21   7.42     0.05       0.20     3.59      437.52    5,217.18                  1.93   0.04   5,705.60




   Mitigated Operational

               ROG     NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                              PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

    Category                                         lb/day                                                                            lb/day

     Area      8.14    0.37   25.86   0.05                    0.00   3.31                0.00     3.31      437.52    1,125.32                  1.74   0.03   1,607.73

    Energy     0.04    0.30   0.13    0.00                    0.00   0.02                0.00     0.02                383.68                    0.01   0.01   386.02

     Mobile    2.25    5.34   22.78   0.04    3.88            0.21   4.09     0.05       0.20     0.26                3,708.18                  0.18          3,711.85

     Total     10.43   6.01   48.77   0.09    3.88            0.21   7.42     0.05       0.20     3.59      437.52    5,217.18                  1.93   0.04   5,705.60




3.0 Construction Detail

                                                                                                                                                                       3 of 22
3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction


3.2 Demolition - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  1.11            0.00   1.11     0.00       0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

  Off-Road       5.07   38.45   23.67   0.04                    2.29   2.29                2.29     2.29                3,946.47                  0.46         3,956.03

    Total        5.07   38.45   23.67   0.04    1.11            2.29   3.40     0.00       2.29     2.29                3,946.47                  0.46         3,956.03




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.27   2.75    1.49    0.00    2.41            0.12   2.53     0.00       0.11     0.11                428.29                    0.01         428.57

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.07   0.07    0.84    0.00    0.17            0.01   0.18     0.00       0.01     0.01                139.44                    0.01         139.61

    Total        0.34   2.82    2.33    0.00    2.58            0.13   2.71     0.00       0.12     0.12                567.73                    0.02         568.18




                                                                                                                                                                        4 of 22
3.2 Demolition - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  1.11            0.00   1.11     0.00       0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

  Off-Road       5.07   38.45   23.67   0.04                    2.29   2.29                2.29     2.29       0.00     3,946.47                  0.46         3,956.03

    Total        5.07   38.45   23.67   0.04    1.11            2.29   3.40     0.00       2.29     2.29       0.00     3,946.47                  0.46         3,956.03




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.27   2.75    1.49    0.00    0.01            0.12   0.13     0.00       0.11     0.11                428.29                    0.01         428.57

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.07   0.07    0.84    0.00    0.01            0.01   0.01     0.00       0.01     0.01                139.44                    0.01         139.61

    Total        0.34   2.82    2.33    0.00    0.02            0.13   0.14     0.00       0.12     0.12                567.73                    0.02         568.18




                                                                                                                                                                        5 of 22
3.3 Site Preparation - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

   Category                                            lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  1.59            0.00   1.59     0.00       0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

   Off-Road      4.20   34.71   18.00   0.04                    1.65   1.65                1.65     1.65                3,917.77                  0.37         3,925.62

    Total        4.20   34.71   18.00   0.04    1.59            1.65   3.24     0.00       1.65     1.65                3,917.77                  0.37         3,925.62




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

   Category                                            lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.04   0.04    0.52    0.00    0.10            0.00   0.11     0.00       0.00     0.00                 85.81                    0.00          85.92

    Total        0.04   0.04    0.52    0.00    0.10            0.00   0.11     0.00       0.00     0.00                 85.81                    0.00          85.92




                                                                                                                                                                        6 of 22
3.3 Site Preparation - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

   Category                                            lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  1.59            0.00   1.59     0.00       0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

   Off-Road      4.20   34.71   18.00   0.04                    1.65   1.65                1.65     1.65       0.00     3,917.77                  0.37         3,925.62

    Total        4.20   34.71   18.00   0.04    1.59            1.65   3.24     0.00       1.65     1.65       0.00     3,917.77                  0.37         3,925.62




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

   Category                                            lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.04   0.04    0.52    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00                 85.81                    0.00          85.92

    Total        0.04   0.04    0.52    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00                 85.81                    0.00          85.92




                                                                                                                                                                        7 of 22
3.4 Grading - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  6.55            0.00   6.55     3.31       0.00     3.31                                                         0.00

  Off-Road       4.70   37.12   22.15   0.04                    1.94   1.94                1.94     1.94                3,827.58                  0.42         3,836.44

    Total        4.70   37.12   22.15   0.04    6.55            1.94   8.49     3.31       1.94     5.25                3,827.58                  0.42         3,836.44




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.06   0.06    0.64    0.00    0.13            0.00   0.13     0.00       0.00     0.01                107.26                    0.01         107.40

    Total        0.06   0.06    0.64    0.00    0.13            0.00   0.13     0.00       0.00     0.01                107.26                    0.01         107.40




                                                                                                                                                                        8 of 22
3.4 Grading - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  6.55            0.00   6.55     3.31       0.00     3.31                                                         0.00

  Off-Road       4.70   37.12   22.15   0.04                    1.94   1.94                1.94     1.94       0.00     3,827.58                  0.42         3,836.44

    Total        4.70   37.12   22.15   0.04    6.55            1.94   8.49     3.31       1.94     5.25       0.00     3,827.58                  0.42         3,836.44




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.06   0.06    0.64    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.01                107.26                    0.01         107.40

    Total        0.06   0.06    0.64    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.01                107.26                    0.01         107.40




                                                                                                                                                                        9 of 22
3.5 Building Construction - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road   5.20   28.63   19.52    0.04                    1.88   1.88                1.88     1.88                3,233.11                  0.47         3,242.90

    Total    5.20   28.63   19.52    0.04                    1.88   1.88                1.88     1.88                3,233.11                  0.47         3,242.90




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor    0.10    1.15   0.69     0.00    0.06            0.04   0.10     0.00       0.04     0.04                190.17                    0.01         190.28

   Worker    0.25    0.25   2.90     0.00    0.59            0.02   0.61     0.01       0.02     0.03                482.69                    0.03         483.28

    Total    0.35    1.40   3.59     0.00    0.65            0.06   0.71     0.01       0.06     0.07                672.86                    0.04         673.56




                                                                                                                                                                     10 of 22
3.5 Building Construction - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road    5.20   28.63   19.52   0.04                    1.88   1.88                1.88     1.88       0.00     3,233.11                  0.47         3,242.90

    Total     5.20   28.63   19.52   0.04                    1.88   1.88                1.88     1.88       0.00     3,233.11                  0.47         3,242.90




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor     0.10   1.15    0.69    0.00    0.00            0.04   0.04     0.00       0.04     0.04                190.17                    0.01         190.28

   Worker     0.25   0.25    2.90    0.00    0.02            0.02   0.04     0.01       0.02     0.03                482.69                    0.03         483.28

    Total     0.35   1.40    3.59    0.00    0.02            0.06   0.08     0.01       0.06     0.07                672.86                    0.04         673.56




                                                                                                                                                                     11 of 22
3.5 Building Construction - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road   4.75   26.63   19.13    0.04                    1.69   1.69                1.69     1.69                3,233.11                  0.43         3,242.06

    Total    4.75   26.63   19.13    0.04                    1.69   1.69                1.69     1.69                3,233.11                  0.43         3,242.06




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor    0.09    1.04   0.63     0.00    0.06            0.04   0.10     0.00       0.03     0.03                190.64                    0.00         190.74

   Worker    0.23    0.23   2.67     0.00    0.59            0.02   0.61     0.01       0.02     0.03                474.30                    0.03         474.86

    Total    0.32    1.27   3.30     0.00    0.65            0.06   0.71     0.01       0.05     0.06                664.94                    0.03         665.60




                                                                                                                                                                     12 of 22
3.5 Building Construction - 2014

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road    4.75   26.63   19.13   0.04                    1.69   1.69                1.69     1.69       0.00     3,233.11                  0.43         3,242.06

    Total     4.75   26.63   19.13   0.04                    1.69   1.69                1.69     1.69       0.00     3,233.11                  0.43         3,242.06




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor     0.09   1.04    0.63    0.00    0.00            0.04   0.04     0.00       0.03     0.03                190.64                    0.00         190.74

   Worker     0.23   0.23    2.67    0.00    0.02            0.02   0.04     0.01       0.02     0.03                474.30                    0.03         474.86

    Total     0.32   1.27    3.30    0.00    0.02            0.06   0.08     0.01       0.05     0.06                664.94                    0.03         665.60




                                                                                                                                                                     13 of 22
3.6 Paving - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road   3.90   24.53   16.67    0.03                    2.05   2.05                2.05     2.05                2,393.42                  0.35         2,400.79

   Paving    0.00                                            0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

    Total    3.90   24.53   16.67    0.03                    2.05   2.05                2.05     2.05                2,393.42                  0.35         2,400.79




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker    0.08    0.08   0.89     0.00    0.20            0.01   0.20     0.00       0.01     0.01                158.10                    0.01         158.29

    Total    0.08    0.08   0.89     0.00    0.20            0.01   0.20     0.00       0.01     0.01                158.10                    0.01         158.29




                                                                                                                                                                     14 of 22
3.6 Paving - 2014

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road    3.90   24.53   16.67   0.03                    2.05   2.05                2.05     2.05       0.00     2,393.42                  0.35         2,400.79

   Paving     0.00                                           0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

    Total     3.90   24.53   16.67   0.03                    2.05   2.05                2.05     2.05       0.00     2,393.42                  0.35         2,400.79




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker     0.08   0.08    0.89    0.00    0.01            0.01   0.01     0.00       0.01     0.01                158.10                    0.01         158.29

    Total     0.08   0.08    0.89    0.00    0.01            0.01   0.01     0.00       0.01     0.01                158.10                    0.01         158.29




                                                                                                                                                                     15 of 22
3.7 Architectural Coating - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                   ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                 PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                             lb/day                                                                          lb/day

 Archit. Coating   48.45                                         0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                      0.00

   Off-Road        0.45    2.77   1.92   0.00                    0.24   0.24                0.24     0.24                281.19                  0.04         282.03

     Total         48.90   2.77   1.92   0.00                    0.24   0.24                0.24     0.24                281.19                  0.04         282.03




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                   ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                 PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                             lb/day                                                                          lb/day

    Hauling        0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                 0.00                   0.00          0.00

    Vendor         0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                 0.00                   0.00          0.00

    Worker         0.05    0.05   0.53   0.00    0.12            0.00   0.12     0.00       0.00     0.01                94.86                   0.01         94.97

     Total         0.05    0.05   0.53   0.00    0.12            0.00   0.12     0.00       0.00     0.01                94.86                   0.01         94.97




                                                                                                                                                                       16 of 22
 3.7 Architectural Coating - 2014

   Mitigated Construction On-Site

                    ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                  PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

    Category                                             lb/day                                                                          lb/day

  Archit. Coating   48.45                                         0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                      0.00

    Off-Road        0.45    2.77   1.92   0.00                    0.24   0.24                0.24     0.24       0.00     281.19                  0.04         282.03

      Total         48.90   2.77   1.92   0.00                    0.24   0.24                0.24     0.24       0.00     281.19                  0.04         282.03




   Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                    ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                  PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

    Category                                             lb/day                                                                          lb/day

     Hauling        0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                 0.00                   0.00          0.00

     Vendor         0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                 0.00                   0.00          0.00

     Worker         0.05    0.05   0.53   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.01                94.86                   0.01         94.97

      Total         0.05    0.05   0.53   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.01                94.86                   0.01         94.97




4.0 Mobile Detail

 4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile
                                                                                                                                                                        17 of 22
                  ROG         NOx       CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust       PM10      Fugitive    Exhaust   PM2.5      Bio- CO2     NBio-      Total CO2         CH4       N2O         CO2e
                                                       PM10        PM10         Total      PM2.5       PM2.5     Total                  CO2

    Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                        lb/day

    Mitigated      2.25       5.34     22.78   0.04    3.88            0.21     4.09       0.05        0.20     0.26                   3,708.18                      0.18                 3,711.85

   Unmitigated     2.25       5.34     22.78   0.04    3.88            0.21     4.09       0.05        0.20     0.26                   3,708.18                      0.18                 3,711.85

      Total        NA         NA        NA     NA       NA             NA        NA         NA          NA       NA          NA          NA            NA            NA        NA           NA




 4.2 Trip Summary Information

                                                                       Average Daily Trip Rate                                   Unmitigated                                  Mitigated
                        Land Use                       Weekday                 Saturday       Sunday                         Annual VMT                                      Annual VMT

                 Apartments Low Rise                    412.30                  412.30               412.30                      1,170,981                                   1,170,981
                          Total                         412.30                  412.30               412.30                      1,170,981                                   1,170,981



 4.3 Trip Type Information

                                                                               Miles                                                         Trip %

                        Land Use                      H-W or C-W              H-S or C-C          H-O or C-NW      H-W or C-W            H-S or C-C            H-O or C-NW
                 Apartments Low Rise                     10.80                   7.30                 7.50               40.20                 19.20                 40.60



5.0 Energy Detail

                                                                                                                                                                                                  18 of 22
5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy




                   ROG        NOx           CO            SO2         Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10           Fugitive     Exhaust         PM2.5         Bio- CO2          NBio-    Total CO2        CH4      N2O            CO2e
                                                                       PM10       PM10           Total           PM2.5        PM2.5           Total                          CO2

   Category                                                                  lb/day                                                                                                           lb/day

  NaturalGas       0.04       0.30          0.13          0.00                        0.00        0.02                            0.00        0.02                           383.68                    0.01     0.01           386.02
   Mitigated
 NaturalGas        0.04       0.30          0.13          0.00                        0.00        0.02                            0.00        0.02                           383.68                    0.01     0.01           386.02
 Unmitigated
    Total           NA        NA            NA            NA            NA            NA              NA             NA           NA              NA             NA            NA        NA            NA        NA             NA



5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas

 Unmitigated

                 NaturalGas Use      ROG           NOx           CO          SO2           Fugitive        Exhaust        PM10         Fugitive        Exhaust        PM2.5      Bio- CO2     NBio-      Total CO2      CH4             N2O    CO2e
                                                                                            PM10            PM10          Total         PM2.5           PM2.5          Total                  CO2

  Land Use           kBTU                                                                        lb/day                                                                                                        lb/day

Apartments Low      3261.28          0.04          0.30          0.13        0.00                           0.00          0.02                          0.00          0.02                    383.68                    0.01            0.01   386.02
     Rise
    Total                            0.04          0.30          0.13        0.00                           0.00          0.02                          0.00          0.02                    383.68                    0.01            0.01   386.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19 of 22
 5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas

   Mitigated

                   NaturalGas Use      ROG            NOx           CO          SO2           Fugitive        Exhaust        PM10         Fugitive        Exhaust        PM2.5       Bio- CO2     NBio-      Total CO2      CH4           N2O    CO2e
                                                                                               PM10            PM10          Total         PM2.5           PM2.5          Total                   CO2

    Land Use           kBTU                                                                         lb/day                                                                                                         lb/day

  Apartments Low      3.26128          0.04           0.30          0.13        0.00                           0.00          0.02                          0.00            0.02                   383.68                    0.01          0.01   386.02
       Rise
      Total                            0.04           0.30          0.13        0.00                           0.00          0.02                          0.00            0.02                   383.68                    0.01          0.01   386.02




6.0 Area Detail

 6.1 Mitigation Measures Area




                     ROG        NOx            CO            SO2         Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10           Fugitive     Exhaust         PM2.5         Bio- CO2            NBio-   Total CO2        CH4      N2O            CO2e
                                                                          PM10       PM10           Total           PM2.5        PM2.5           Total                            CO2

     Category                                                                   lb/day                                                                                                            lb/day

     Mitigated       8.14       0.37          25.86          0.05                        0.00        3.31                            0.00        3.31             437.52      1,125.32                     1.74     0.03       1,607.73

   Unmitigated       8.14       0.37          25.86          0.05                        0.00        3.31                            0.00        3.31             437.52      1,125.32                     1.74     0.03       1,607.73

      Total           NA        NA             NA            NA            NA            NA              NA             NA           NA              NA             NA             NA        NA            NA        NA            NA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20 of 22
6.2 Area by SubCategory

 Unmitigated

                 ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                               PM10       PM10      Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

 SubCategory                                        lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Architectural   0.13                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                          0.00
   Coating
  Consumer       1.23                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                          0.00
  Products
   Hearth        6.60   0.30   20.52   0.05                  0.00   3.28                0.00     3.28      437.52    1,116.00                  1.73   0.03   1,598.19

 Landscaping     0.18   0.06   5.34    0.00                  0.00   0.03                0.00     0.03                  9.32                    0.01            9.54

    Total        8.14   0.36   25.86   0.05                  0.00   3.31                0.00     3.31      437.52    1,125.32                  1.74   0.03   1,607.73




 Mitigated

                 ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                               PM10       PM10      Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

 SubCategory                                        lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Architectural   0.13                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                          0.00
   Coating
  Consumer       1.23                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                          0.00
  Products
   Hearth        6.60   0.30   20.52   0.05                  0.00   3.28                0.00     3.28      437.52    1,116.00                  1.73   0.03   1,598.19

 Landscaping     0.18   0.06   5.34    0.00                  0.00   0.03                0.00     0.03                  9.32                    0.01            9.54

    Total        8.14   0.36   25.86   0.05                  0.00   3.31                0.00     3.31      437.52    1,125.32                  1.74   0.03   1,607.73




                                                                                                                                                                      21 of 22
7.0 Water Detail

 7.1 Mitigation Measures Water




8.0 Waste Detail

 8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste




9.0 Vegetation




                                 22 of 22
 CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2011.1.1                                                                                                        Date: 4/16/2013

                                                              West Holt Avenue Apartments
                                                                 South Coast Air Basin, Winter



1.0 Project Characteristics

 1.1 Land Usage

                  Land Uses                            Size                             Metric

            Apartments Low Rise                         62                           Dwelling Unit


 1.2 Other Project Characteristics
   Urbanization      Urban                   Wind Speed (m/s)         2.2                    Utility Company   Southern California Edison

   Climate Zone      9                       Precipitation Freq (Days) 31


 1.3 User Entered Comments

   Project Characteristics -
   Land Use - Lot acreage based on actual size of project site. Population based on California Department of Finance estimates of persons per household
   within the City of Pomona.
   Construction Phase - Demolition 10/1/2013 - 10/28/2013, Site Prep 10/29/2013 - 10/31/2013, Grading 11/1/2013 - 11/8/2013, Building 11/9/2013 -
   9/12/2014, Paving 9/13/2014 - 9/28/2014, Arch Coat 9/29/2014 - 10/12/2014. Maintained default total days for each phase.
   Grading - Site is flat. Assume they will balance soils on-site
   Demolition - Demolition of mobile homes assumes 50% site coverage for the mobile home parcel.
   Vehicle Trips - Trip rate based on daily trip rate used in traffic study prepared by Linscott, Law & Greenspan, Engineers.

                                                                                                                                                     1 of 22
2.0 Emissions Summary

 2.1 Overall Construction (Maximum Daily Emission)

  Unmitigated Construction

              ROG     NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2         CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                              PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

     Year                                            lb/day                                                                               lb/day

    2013      5.58    41.43   26.06   0.04    6.68            2.42   8.63     3.31       2.41     5.26       0.00     4,500.46     0.00            0.50   0.00   4,510.93

    2014      48.95   27.98   22.34   0.04    0.65            2.05   2.40     0.01       2.05     2.05       0.00     3,856.84     0.00            0.46   0.00   3,866.42

    Total      NA      NA      NA     NA       NA             NA      NA       NA         NA       NA        NA         NA          NA             NA     NA       NA




  Mitigated Construction

              ROG     NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2         CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                              PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

     Year                                            lb/day                                                                               lb/day

    2013      5.58    41.43   26.06   0.04    6.56            2.42   8.50     3.31       2.41     5.26       0.00     4,500.46     0.00            0.50   0.00   4,510.93

    2014      48.95   27.98   22.34   0.04    0.03            2.05   2.06     0.01       2.05     2.05       0.00     3,856.84     0.00            0.46   0.00   3,866.42

    Total      NA      NA      NA     NA       NA             NA      NA       NA         NA       NA        NA         NA          NA             NA     NA       NA




                                                                                                                                                                         2 of 22
 2.2 Overall Operational

   Unmitigated Operational

               ROG     NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                              PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

    Category                                         lb/day                                                                            lb/day

     Area      8.14    0.37   25.86   0.05                    0.00   3.31                0.00     3.31      437.52    1,125.32                  1.74   0.03   1,607.73

    Energy     0.04    0.30   0.13    0.00                    0.00   0.02                0.00     0.02                383.68                    0.01   0.01   386.02

     Mobile    2.35    5.79   22.21   0.03    3.88            0.21   4.09     0.05       0.20     0.26                3,449.16                  0.14          3,452.17

     Total     10.53   6.46   48.20   0.08    3.88            0.21   7.42     0.05       0.20     3.59      437.52    4,958.16                  1.89   0.04   5,445.92




   Mitigated Operational

               ROG     NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                              PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

    Category                                         lb/day                                                                            lb/day

     Area      8.14    0.37   25.86   0.05                    0.00   3.31                0.00     3.31      437.52    1,125.32                  1.74   0.03   1,607.73

    Energy     0.04    0.30   0.13    0.00                    0.00   0.02                0.00     0.02                383.68                    0.01   0.01   386.02

     Mobile    2.35    5.79   22.21   0.03    3.88            0.21   4.09     0.05       0.20     0.26                3,449.16                  0.14          3,452.17

     Total     10.53   6.46   48.20   0.08    3.88            0.21   7.42     0.05       0.20     3.59      437.52    4,958.16                  1.89   0.04   5,445.92




3.0 Construction Detail

                                                                                                                                                                       3 of 22
3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction


3.2 Demolition - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  1.11            0.00   1.11     0.00       0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

  Off-Road       5.07   38.45   23.67   0.04                    2.29   2.29                2.29     2.29                3,946.47                  0.46         3,956.03

    Total        5.07   38.45   23.67   0.04    1.11            2.29   3.40     0.00       2.29     2.29                3,946.47                  0.46         3,956.03




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.28   2.90    1.60    0.00    2.41            0.12   2.53     0.00       0.11     0.12                426.22                    0.01         426.50

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.08   0.08    0.78    0.00    0.17            0.01   0.18     0.00       0.01     0.01                127.77                    0.01         127.94

    Total        0.36   2.98    2.38    0.00    2.58            0.13   2.71     0.00       0.12     0.13                553.99                    0.02         554.44




                                                                                                                                                                        4 of 22
3.2 Demolition - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  1.11            0.00   1.11     0.00       0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

  Off-Road       5.07   38.45   23.67   0.04                    2.29   2.29                2.29     2.29       0.00     3,946.47                  0.46         3,956.03

    Total        5.07   38.45   23.67   0.04    1.11            2.29   3.40     0.00       2.29     2.29       0.00     3,946.47                  0.46         3,956.03




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.28   2.90    1.60    0.00    0.01            0.12   0.13     0.00       0.11     0.12                426.22                    0.01         426.50

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.08   0.08    0.78    0.00    0.01            0.01   0.01     0.00       0.01     0.01                127.77                    0.01         127.94

    Total        0.36   2.98    2.38    0.00    0.02            0.13   0.14     0.00       0.12     0.13                553.99                    0.02         554.44




                                                                                                                                                                        5 of 22
3.3 Site Preparation - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

   Category                                            lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  1.59            0.00   1.59     0.00       0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

   Off-Road      4.20   34.71   18.00   0.04                    1.65   1.65                1.65     1.65                3,917.77                  0.37         3,925.62

    Total        4.20   34.71   18.00   0.04    1.59            1.65   3.24     0.00       1.65     1.65                3,917.77                  0.37         3,925.62




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

   Category                                            lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.05   0.05    0.48    0.00    0.10            0.00   0.11     0.00       0.00     0.00                 78.63                    0.00          78.73

    Total        0.05   0.05    0.48    0.00    0.10            0.00   0.11     0.00       0.00     0.00                 78.63                    0.00          78.73




                                                                                                                                                                        6 of 22
3.3 Site Preparation - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

   Category                                            lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  1.59            0.00   1.59     0.00       0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

   Off-Road      4.20   34.71   18.00   0.04                    1.65   1.65                1.65     1.65       0.00     3,917.77                  0.37         3,925.62

    Total        4.20   34.71   18.00   0.04    1.59            1.65   3.24     0.00       1.65     1.65       0.00     3,917.77                  0.37         3,925.62




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

   Category                                            lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.05   0.05    0.48    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00                 78.63                    0.00          78.73

    Total        0.05   0.05    0.48    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.00                 78.63                    0.00          78.73




                                                                                                                                                                        7 of 22
3.4 Grading - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  6.55            0.00   6.55     3.31       0.00     3.31                                                         0.00

  Off-Road       4.70   37.12   22.15   0.04                    1.94   1.94                1.94     1.94                3,827.58                  0.42         3,836.44

    Total        4.70   37.12   22.15   0.04    6.55            1.94   8.49     3.31       1.94     5.25                3,827.58                  0.42         3,836.44




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.06   0.06    0.60    0.00    0.13            0.00   0.13     0.00       0.00     0.01                 98.29                    0.01          98.41

    Total        0.06   0.06    0.60    0.00    0.13            0.00   0.13     0.00       0.00     0.01                 98.29                    0.01          98.41




                                                                                                                                                                        8 of 22
3.4 Grading - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Fugitive Dust                                  6.55            0.00   6.55     3.31       0.00     3.31                                                         0.00

  Off-Road       4.70   37.12   22.15   0.04                    1.94   1.94                1.94     1.94       0.00     3,827.58                  0.42         3,836.44

    Total        4.70   37.12   22.15   0.04    6.55            1.94   8.49     3.31       1.94     5.25       0.00     3,827.58                  0.42         3,836.44




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                 ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                                PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                             lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling       0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker        0.06   0.06    0.60    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.01                 98.29                    0.01          98.41

    Total        0.06   0.06    0.60    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.01                 98.29                    0.01          98.41




                                                                                                                                                                        9 of 22
3.5 Building Construction - 2013

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road   5.20   28.63   19.52    0.04                    1.88   1.88                1.88     1.88                3,233.11                  0.47         3,242.90

    Total    5.20   28.63   19.52    0.04                    1.88   1.88                1.88     1.88                3,233.11                  0.47         3,242.90




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor    0.11    1.20   0.78     0.00    0.06            0.04   0.11     0.00       0.04     0.04                188.76                    0.01         188.88

   Worker    0.27    0.29   2.71     0.00    0.59            0.02   0.61     0.01       0.02     0.03                442.29                    0.03         442.85

    Total    0.38    1.49   3.49     0.00    0.65            0.06   0.72     0.01       0.06     0.07                631.05                    0.04         631.73




                                                                                                                                                                     10 of 22
3.5 Building Construction - 2013

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road    5.20   28.63   19.52   0.04                    1.88   1.88                1.88     1.88       0.00     3,233.11                  0.47         3,242.90

    Total     5.20   28.63   19.52   0.04                    1.88   1.88                1.88     1.88       0.00     3,233.11                  0.47         3,242.90




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor     0.11   1.20    0.78    0.00    0.00            0.04   0.05     0.00       0.04     0.04                188.76                    0.01         188.88

   Worker     0.27   0.29    2.71    0.00    0.02            0.02   0.04     0.01       0.02     0.03                442.29                    0.03         442.85

    Total     0.38   1.49    3.49    0.00    0.02            0.06   0.09     0.01       0.06     0.07                631.05                    0.04         631.73




                                                                                                                                                                     11 of 22
3.5 Building Construction - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road   4.75   26.63   19.13    0.04                    1.69   1.69                1.69     1.69                3,233.11                  0.43         3,242.06

    Total    4.75   26.63   19.13    0.04                    1.69   1.69                1.69     1.69                3,233.11                  0.43         3,242.06




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor    0.10    1.09   0.72     0.00    0.06            0.04   0.10     0.00       0.03     0.04                189.19                    0.00         189.30

   Worker    0.25    0.26   2.49     0.00    0.59            0.02   0.61     0.01       0.02     0.03                434.54                    0.03         435.06

    Total    0.35    1.35   3.21     0.00    0.65            0.06   0.71     0.01       0.05     0.07                623.73                    0.03         624.36




                                                                                                                                                                     12 of 22
3.5 Building Construction - 2014

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road    4.75   26.63   19.13   0.04                    1.69   1.69                1.69     1.69       0.00     3,233.11                  0.43         3,242.06

    Total     4.75   26.63   19.13   0.04                    1.69   1.69                1.69     1.69       0.00     3,233.11                  0.43         3,242.06




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor     0.10   1.09    0.72    0.00    0.00            0.04   0.04     0.00       0.03     0.04                189.19                    0.00         189.30

   Worker     0.25   0.26    2.49    0.00    0.02            0.02   0.04     0.01       0.02     0.03                434.54                    0.03         435.06

    Total     0.35   1.35    3.21    0.00    0.02            0.06   0.08     0.01       0.05     0.07                623.73                    0.03         624.36




                                                                                                                                                                     13 of 22
3.6 Paving - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road   3.90   24.53   16.67    0.03                    2.05   2.05                2.05     2.05                2,393.42                  0.35         2,400.79

   Paving    0.00                                            0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

    Total    3.90   24.53   16.67    0.03                    2.05   2.05                2.05     2.05                2,393.42                  0.35         2,400.79




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

             ROG     NOx     CO      SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker    0.08    0.09   0.83     0.00    0.20            0.01   0.20     0.00       0.01     0.01                144.85                    0.01         145.02

    Total    0.08    0.09   0.83     0.00    0.20            0.01   0.20     0.00       0.01     0.01                144.85                    0.01         145.02




                                                                                                                                                                     14 of 22
3.6 Paving - 2014

 Mitigated Construction On-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

  Off-Road    3.90   24.53   16.67   0.03                    2.05   2.05                2.05     2.05       0.00     2,393.42                  0.35         2,400.79

   Paving     0.00                                           0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                         0.00

    Total     3.90   24.53   16.67   0.03                    2.05   2.05                2.05     2.05       0.00     2,393.42                  0.35         2,400.79




 Mitigated Construction Off-Site

              ROG    NOx      CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O    CO2e
                                             PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

  Category                                          lb/day                                                                            lb/day

   Hauling    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Vendor     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                  0.00                    0.00           0.00

   Worker     0.08   0.09    0.83    0.00    0.01            0.01   0.01     0.00       0.01     0.01                144.85                    0.01         145.02

    Total     0.08   0.09    0.83    0.00    0.01            0.01   0.01     0.00       0.01     0.01                144.85                    0.01         145.02




                                                                                                                                                                     15 of 22
3.7 Architectural Coating - 2014

 Unmitigated Construction On-Site

                   ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                 PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                             lb/day                                                                          lb/day

 Archit. Coating   48.45                                         0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                      0.00

   Off-Road        0.45    2.77   1.92   0.00                    0.24   0.24                0.24     0.24                281.19                  0.04         282.03

     Total         48.90   2.77   1.92   0.00                    0.24   0.24                0.24     0.24                281.19                  0.04         282.03




 Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

                   ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                 PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

   Category                                             lb/day                                                                          lb/day

    Hauling        0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                 0.00                   0.00          0.00

    Vendor         0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                 0.00                   0.00          0.00

    Worker         0.05    0.05   0.50   0.00    0.12            0.00   0.12     0.00       0.00     0.01                86.91                   0.01         87.01

     Total         0.05    0.05   0.50   0.00    0.12            0.00   0.12     0.00       0.00     0.01                86.91                   0.01         87.01




                                                                                                                                                                       16 of 22
 3.7 Architectural Coating - 2014

   Mitigated Construction On-Site

                    ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                  PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

    Category                                             lb/day                                                                          lb/day

  Archit. Coating   48.45                                         0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                      0.00

    Off-Road        0.45    2.77   1.92   0.00                    0.24   0.24                0.24     0.24       0.00     281.19                  0.04         282.03

      Total         48.90   2.77   1.92   0.00                    0.24   0.24                0.24     0.24       0.00     281.19                  0.04         282.03




   Mitigated Construction Off-Site

                    ROG     NOx    CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust     PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2   NBio-    Total CO2      CH4    N2O   CO2e
                                                  PM10        PM10       Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total              CO2

    Category                                             lb/day                                                                          lb/day

     Hauling        0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                 0.00                   0.00          0.00

     Vendor         0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00                 0.00                   0.00          0.00

     Worker         0.05    0.05   0.50   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.01                86.91                   0.01         87.01

      Total         0.05    0.05   0.50   0.00    0.00            0.00   0.01     0.00       0.00     0.01                86.91                   0.01         87.01




4.0 Mobile Detail

 4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile
                                                                                                                                                                        17 of 22
                  ROG         NOx       CO     SO2    Fugitive    Exhaust       PM10      Fugitive    Exhaust   PM2.5      Bio- CO2     NBio-      Total CO2         CH4       N2O         CO2e
                                                       PM10        PM10         Total      PM2.5       PM2.5     Total                  CO2

    Category                                                  lb/day                                                                                        lb/day

    Mitigated      2.35       5.79     22.21   0.03    3.88            0.21     4.09       0.05        0.20     0.26                   3,449.16                      0.14                 3,452.17

   Unmitigated     2.35       5.79     22.21   0.03    3.88            0.21     4.09       0.05        0.20     0.26                   3,449.16                      0.14                 3,452.17

      Total        NA         NA        NA     NA       NA             NA        NA         NA          NA       NA          NA          NA            NA            NA        NA           NA




 4.2 Trip Summary Information

                                                                       Average Daily Trip Rate                                   Unmitigated                                  Mitigated
                        Land Use                       Weekday                 Saturday       Sunday                         Annual VMT                                      Annual VMT

                 Apartments Low Rise                    412.30                  412.30               412.30                      1,170,981                                   1,170,981
                          Total                         412.30                  412.30               412.30                      1,170,981                                   1,170,981



 4.3 Trip Type Information

                                                                               Miles                                                         Trip %

                        Land Use                      H-W or C-W              H-S or C-C          H-O or C-NW      H-W or C-W            H-S or C-C            H-O or C-NW
                 Apartments Low Rise                     10.80                   7.30                 7.50               40.20                 19.20                 40.60



5.0 Energy Detail

                                                                                                                                                                                                  18 of 22
5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy




                   ROG        NOx           CO            SO2         Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10           Fugitive     Exhaust         PM2.5         Bio- CO2          NBio-    Total CO2        CH4      N2O            CO2e
                                                                       PM10       PM10           Total           PM2.5        PM2.5           Total                          CO2

   Category                                                                  lb/day                                                                                                           lb/day

  NaturalGas       0.04       0.30          0.13          0.00                        0.00        0.02                            0.00        0.02                           383.68                    0.01     0.01           386.02
   Mitigated
 NaturalGas        0.04       0.30          0.13          0.00                        0.00        0.02                            0.00        0.02                           383.68                    0.01     0.01           386.02
 Unmitigated
    Total           NA        NA            NA            NA            NA            NA              NA             NA           NA              NA             NA            NA        NA            NA        NA             NA



5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas

 Unmitigated

                 NaturalGas Use      ROG           NOx           CO          SO2           Fugitive        Exhaust        PM10         Fugitive        Exhaust        PM2.5      Bio- CO2     NBio-      Total CO2      CH4             N2O    CO2e
                                                                                            PM10            PM10          Total         PM2.5           PM2.5          Total                  CO2

  Land Use           kBTU                                                                        lb/day                                                                                                        lb/day

Apartments Low      3261.28          0.04          0.30          0.13        0.00                           0.00          0.02                          0.00          0.02                    383.68                    0.01            0.01   386.02
     Rise
    Total                            0.04          0.30          0.13        0.00                           0.00          0.02                          0.00          0.02                    383.68                    0.01            0.01   386.02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19 of 22
 5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas

   Mitigated

                   NaturalGas Use      ROG            NOx           CO          SO2           Fugitive        Exhaust        PM10         Fugitive        Exhaust        PM2.5       Bio- CO2     NBio-      Total CO2      CH4           N2O    CO2e
                                                                                               PM10            PM10          Total         PM2.5           PM2.5          Total                   CO2

    Land Use           kBTU                                                                         lb/day                                                                                                         lb/day

  Apartments Low      3.26128          0.04           0.30          0.13        0.00                           0.00          0.02                          0.00            0.02                   383.68                    0.01          0.01   386.02
       Rise
      Total                            0.04           0.30          0.13        0.00                           0.00          0.02                          0.00            0.02                   383.68                    0.01          0.01   386.02




6.0 Area Detail

 6.1 Mitigation Measures Area




                     ROG        NOx            CO            SO2         Fugitive   Exhaust         PM10           Fugitive     Exhaust         PM2.5         Bio- CO2            NBio-   Total CO2        CH4      N2O            CO2e
                                                                          PM10       PM10           Total           PM2.5        PM2.5           Total                            CO2

     Category                                                                   lb/day                                                                                                            lb/day

     Mitigated       8.14       0.37          25.86          0.05                        0.00        3.31                            0.00        3.31             437.52      1,125.32                     1.74     0.03       1,607.73

   Unmitigated       8.14       0.37          25.86          0.05                        0.00        3.31                            0.00        3.31             437.52      1,125.32                     1.74     0.03       1,607.73

      Total           NA        NA             NA            NA            NA            NA              NA             NA           NA              NA             NA             NA        NA            NA        NA            NA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20 of 22
6.2 Area by SubCategory

 Unmitigated

                 ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                               PM10       PM10      Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

 SubCategory                                        lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Architectural   0.13                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                          0.00
   Coating
  Consumer       1.23                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                          0.00
  Products
   Hearth        6.60   0.30   20.52   0.05                  0.00   3.28                0.00     3.28      437.52    1,116.00                  1.73   0.03   1,598.19

 Landscaping     0.18   0.06   5.34    0.00                  0.00   0.03                0.00     0.03                  9.32                    0.01            9.54

    Total        8.14   0.36   25.86   0.05                  0.00   3.31                0.00     3.31      437.52    1,125.32                  1.74   0.03   1,607.73




 Mitigated

                 ROG    NOx     CO     SO2    Fugitive   Exhaust    PM10    Fugitive   Exhaust   PM2.5    Bio- CO2    NBio-     Total CO2      CH4    N2O     CO2e
                                               PM10       PM10      Total    PM2.5      PM2.5     Total               CO2

 SubCategory                                        lb/day                                                                            lb/day

 Architectural   0.13                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                          0.00
   Coating
  Consumer       1.23                                        0.00   0.00                0.00     0.00                                                          0.00
  Products
   Hearth        6.60   0.30   20.52   0.05                  0.00   3.28                0.00     3.28      437.52    1,116.00                  1.73   0.03   1,598.19

 Landscaping     0.18   0.06   5.34    0.00                  0.00   0.03                0.00     0.03                  9.32                    0.01            9.54

    Total        8.14   0.36   25.86   0.05                  0.00   3.31                0.00     3.31      437.52    1,125.32                  1.74   0.03   1,607.73




                                                                                                                                                                      21 of 22
7.0 Water Detail

 7.1 Mitigation Measures Water




8.0 Waste Detail

 8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste




9.0 Vegetation




                                 22 of 22
Greenhouse Gas Emission Worksheet
N20 Mobile Emissions                                    West Holt Avenue Project ISMND

From URBEMIS 2007 Vehicle Fleet Mix Output:

Annual VMT:                                 1,170,981

                                                                                    N2O
                                                                        CH4         Emission       N2O
                                       Percent      CH4 Emission        Emission Factor            Emission
Vehicle Type                           Type         Factor (g/mile)*    (g/mile)** (g/mile)*       (g/mile)**
Light Auto                                   41.5%              0.04        0.0166         0.04        0.0166
Light Truck < 3750 lbs                       18.8%              0.05        0.0094         0.06       0.01128
Light Truck 3751-5750 lbs                    19.9%              0.05       0.00995         0.06       0.01194
Med Truck 5751-8500 lbs                        8.0%             0.12        0.0096           0.2        0.016
Lite-Heavy Truck 8501-10,000 lbs               2.1%             0.12       0.00252           0.2       0.0042
Lite-Heavy Truck 10,001-14,000 lbs             1.2%             0.09       0.00108       0.125         0.0015
Med-Heavy Truck 14,001-33,000 lbs              1.0%             0.06        0.0006         0.05        0.0005
Heavy-Heavy Truck 33,001-60,000 lbs            0.4%             0.06       0.00024         0.05        0.0002
Other Bus                                      0.1%             0.06       0.00006         0.05       0.00005
Urban Bus                                      0.0%             0.06              0        0.05              0
Motorcycle                                     5.2%             0.09       0.00468        0.01        0.00052
School Bus                                     0.1%             0.06       0.00006        0.05        0.00005
Motor Home                                     1.7%             0.09       0.00153       0.125      0.002125
                                 Total      100.0%                         0.05632                  0.064965

Total Emissions (metric tons) =
Emission Factor by Vehicle Mix (g/mi) x Annual VMT(mi) x 0.000001 metric tons/g

Conversion to Carbon Dioxide Equivalency (CO2e) Units based on Global Warming Potential (GWP)
CH4                                           21 GWP
N2O                                          310 GWP
1 ton (short, US) =                   0.90718474 metric ton

Annual Mobile Emissions:

                                         Total Emissions               Total CO2e units
                        N20 Emissions:         0.0761 metric tons N2O        23.58 metric tons CO2e
                                                        Project Total:      23.58 metric tons CO2e
References
* from Table C.4: Methane and Nitrous Oxide Emission Factors for Mobile Sources by Vehicle and Fuel Type (g/mile).
    in California Climate Action Registry General Reporting Protocol, Reporting Entity-Wide Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Version 3.1, January 2009.
  Assume Model year 2000-present, gasoline fueled.
** Source: California Climate Action Registry General Reporting Protocol, Reporting Entity-Wide Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Version 3.1, January 2009.
*** From URBEMIS 2007 results for mobile sources
        Appendix B
Historic Resources Report
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue
Pomona, CA




10 September 2013



Prepared by:                Prepared for:
                            Rincon Consultants, Inc.
                            180 N. Ashwood Avenue
                            Ventura, CA 93003
Executive Summary

This report was prepared for the purpose of assisting the City of Pomona in their compliance with the Califor-
nia Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) as it relates to historic resources for three parcels totaling approxi-
mately 4.0 acres, addressed at 934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona (APN 8348-09-906; -907; -908). The first of these
parcels is the location of a circa 1885 residence and a trailer court established during the 1940s. The latter of
the two parcels are vacant. A multifamily residential project is proposed for the parcels that will result in the
demolition of the existing improvements. [Figure 1]

This report assesses the historical and architectural significance of potentially significant historic properties
in accordance with the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP), the California Register of Historical Re-
sources (CRHR) Criteria for Evaluation, and City of Pomona Historic Landmark criteria.

This report was prepared by San Buenaventura Research Associates of Santa Paula, California, Judy Triem, His-
torian; and Mitch Stone, Preservation Planner, for Rincon Consultants, Inc, and is based on a field investiga-
tion and research conducted in September 2013. The conclusions contained this report represent the profes-
sional opinions of San Buenaventura Research Associates, and are based on the factual data available at the
time of its preparation, the application of the appropriate local, state and federal regulations, and best pro-
fessional practices.

Summary of Findings

No buildings on the property evaluated in this report were found to be potentially eligible for listing on the
NRHP and CRHR or potentially eligible for designation as a City of Pomona landmark. Consequently, none were
found to be historic resources for purposes of CEQA.

Report Contents

1.   Administrative Setting                                                                             1
     City of Pomona Historic Landmark Designation Criteria (Pomona City Code, §5809-13 D)
2.   Impact Thresholds and Mitigation                                                                   3
3.   Historical Setting                                                                                 3
     General Historical Context
     Property-Specific Context
4.   Potential Historic Resources                                                                       6
5.   Eligibility of Historic Resources                                                                  7
     National and California Registers: Significance, Eligibility and Integrity
     Local Significance and Eligibility
     Conclusion
6.   Selected Sources                                                                                 10
Project Location




      Figure 1. Project Location [Source: USGS 7.5' Quadrangle, San Dimas, CA, 1954]
1. Administrative Setting

   The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires evaluation of project impacts on historic resources,
   including properties "listed in, or determined eligible for listing in, the California Register of Historical Re-
   sources [or] included in a local register of historical resources." A resource is eligible for listing on the Cali-
   fornia Register of Historical Resources if it meets any of the criteria for listing, which are:

       1.   Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of Califor-
            nia's history and cultural heritage;
       2.   Is associated with the lives of persons important in our past;
       3.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of construction, or rep-
            resents the work of an important creative individual, or possesses high artistic values; or
       4.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history. (PRC
            §5024.1(c))

   By definition, the California Register of Historical Resources also includes all "properties formally determined
   eligible for, or listed in, the National Register of Historic Places," and certain specified State Historical Land-
   marks. The majority of "formal determinations" of NRHP eligibility occur when properties are evaluated by the
   State Office of Historic Preservation in connection with federal environmental review procedures (Section 106
   of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966). Formal determinations of eligibility also occur when prop-
   erties are nominated to the NRHP, but are not listed due to a lack of owner consent.

   The criteria for determining eligibility for listing on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) have been
   developed by the National Park Service. Eligible properties include districts, sites, buildings and structures,

       A. That are associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of
          our history; or
       B. That are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
       C. That embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction or that rep-
          resent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that represent a significant and
          distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
       D. That have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history.

   According to the NRHP standards, in order for a property which is found to significant under one or more of
   the criteria to be considered eligible for listing, the "essential physical features" which define the property's
   significance must be present. The standard for determining if a property's essential physical features exist is
   known as integrity, which is defined as "the ability of a property to convey its significance." The integrity
   evaluation is broken down into seven "aspects."

   The seven aspects of integrity are: Location (the place where the historic property was constructed or the
   place where the historic event occurred); Design (the combination of elements that create the form, plan,
   space, structure, and style of a property); Setting (the physical environment of a historic property); Materials
   (the physical elements that were combined or deposited during a particular period of time and in a particular
   pattern or configuration to form a historic property); Workmanship (the physical evidence of the crafts of a
   particular culture or people during any given period of history or prehistory); Feeling (a property's expression
   of the aesthetic or historic sense of a particular period of time), and; Association (the direct link between an
   important historic event or person and a historic property).

   The relevant aspects of integrity depend upon the NRHP criteria applied to a property. For example, a property
   nominated under Criterion A (events), would be likely to convey its significance primarily through integrity of
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



   location, setting and association. A property nominated solely under Criterion C (design) would usually rely
   primarily upon integrity of design, materials and workmanship. The California Register regulations include
   similar language with regard to integrity, but also state that "it is possible that historical resources may not
   retain sufficient integrity to meet the criteria for listing in the National Register, but they may still be eligible
   for listing in the California Register." Further, according to the NRHP guidelines, the integrity of a property
   must be evaluated at the time the evaluation of eligibility is conducted. Integrity assessments cannot be
   based on speculation with respect to historic fabric and architectural elements which may exist but are not
   visible to the evaluator, or on restorations which are theoretically possible but which have not occurred. (CCR
   §4852 (c))

   The minimum age criterion for the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) and the California Register of
   Historical Resources (CRHR) is 50 years. Properties less than 50 years old may be eligible for listing on the
   NRHP if they can be regarded as "exceptional," as defined by the NRHP procedures, or in terms of the CRHR,
   "if it can be demonstrated that sufficient time has passed to understand its historical importance" (Chapter
   11, Title 14, §4842(d)(2))

   Historic resources as defined by CEQA also includes properties listed in "local registers" of historic properties.
   A "local register of historic resources" is broadly defined in §5020.1 (k) of the Public Resources Code, as "a
   list of properties officially designated or recognized as historically significant by a local government pursuant
   to a local ordinance or resolution." Local registers of historic properties come essentially in two forms: (1)
   surveys of historic resources conducted by a local agency in accordance with Office of Historic Preservation
   procedures and standards, adopted by the local agency and maintained as current, and (2) landmarks desig-
   nated under local ordinances or resolutions. These properties are "presumed to be historically or culturally
   significant... unless the preponderance of the evidence demonstrates that the resource is not historically or
   culturally significant." (PRC §§ 5024.1, 21804.1, 15064.5)

   City of Pomona Historic Landmark Designation Criteria (Pomona City Code, §5809-13 D)

   For the purposes of this section, an improvement, natural feature, or site may be designated an Historic
   Landmark by the Historic Preservation Commission and City Council and any area within the City of Pomona
   may be designated an Historic District pursuant to Subsection E (Appeal Procedure) of this Section, if the
   building or majority of buildings (in a district) are fifty (50) or more years old or of exceptional quality if less
   than fifty (50) years old, and it meets one or more of the following criteria:

       1.   It exemplifies or reflects special elements of the City of Pomona's cultural, social, economic, political,
            aesthetic, engineering, architectural, or natural history;
       2.   It is identified with persons or events significant in local, state, or national history;
       3.   It embodies distinctive characteristics of a style, type, period, or method of construction, or is a
            valuable example of the use of indigenous materials or craftsmanship;
       4.   It contributes to the significance of a historic area, being a geographically definable area possessing
            a concentration of historic or scenic properties or thematically related grouping of properties which
            contribute to each other and are unified aesthetically by plan or physical development;
       5.   It is the work of a notable building, designer, landscape designer, or architect;
       6.   It has a unique location or singular physical characteristics or is a view or vista representing an es-
            tablished and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, community, or the City of Pomona;
       7.   It embodies elements of architectural design, detail, materials, or craftsmanship that represent a
            significant structural or architectural achievement or innovation;



SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                       Page 2 of 10
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



        8.  It is similar to other distinctive properties, sites, areas, or objects based on a historic, cultural, or
            architectural motif;
        9. It reflects significant geographical patterns, including those associated with different eras of settle-
            ment and growth, particular transportation modes, or distinctive examples of park or community
            planning; and/or
        10. It is one of the few remaining examples in the City of Pomona, region, state, or nation possessing
            distinguishing characteristics of an architectural or historical type or specimen.

2. Impact Thresholds and Mitigation

    According to the Public Resources Code, "a project that may cause a substantial change in the significance of
    an historical resource is a project that may have a significant effect on the environment." The Public Re-
    sources Code broadly defines a threshold for determining if the impacts of a project on an historic property
    will be significant and adverse. By definition, a substantial adverse change means, "demolition, destruction,
    relocation, or alterations," such that the significance of an historical resource would be impaired. For pur-
    poses of NRHP eligibility, reductions in a property's integrity (the ability of the property to convey its signifi-
    cance) should be regarded as potentially adverse impacts. (PRC §21084.1, §5020.1(6))

    Further, according to the CEQA Guidelines, "an historical resource is materially impaired when a project...
    [d]emolishes or materially alters in an adverse manner those physical characteristics of an historical resource
    that convey its historical significance and that justify its inclusion in, or eligibility for, inclusion in the Cali-
    fornia Register of Historical Resources [or] that account for its inclusion in a local register of historical re-
    sources pursuant to section 5020.1(k) of the Public Resources Code or its identification in an historical re-
    sources survey meeting the requirements of section 5024.1(g) of the Public Resources Code, unless the public
    agency reviewing the effects of the project establishes by a preponderance of evidence that the resource is
    not historically or culturally significant."

    The lead agency is responsible for the identification of "potentially feasible measures to mitigate significant
    adverse changes in the significance of an historical resource." The specified methodology for determining if
    impacts are mitigated to less than significant levels are the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treat-
    ment of Historic Properties with Guidelines for Preserving, Rehabilitating, Restoring, and Reconstructing Historic
    Buildings and the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating His-
    toric Buildings (1995), publications of the National Park Service. (PRC §15064.5(b)(3-4))

3. Historical Setting

    General Historical Context

    The city of Pomona is located on a portion of the 20,000-acre Rancho San José de Arriba, granted by the
    Mexican government in 1837 to Ygnacio Palomares and a family friend, Ricardo Vejar. Holding the rancho as
    an undivided interest, Palomares constructed a home near today's Ganesha Park, and Vejar built an adobe on
    the Arroyo Pedragoso, near the western boundary of the rancho. In 1840 Palmomares and Vejar were joined in
    ownership by Luis Arenas, the brother-in-law of Ygnacio Palomares.

    The three petitioned the government for an expansion of their holdings, which was granted as the Rancho San
    José Addition, covering roughly 2,000 acres located between present-day Glendora and La Verne. Arenas built
    his home on this portion of the conjoined land grants, but not long after his interests were acquired by Henry
    Dalton. By agreement of the three partners, the rancho was partitioned by court order in 1846, the southern




SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                         Page 3 of 10
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



   portion going to Vejar, the northern section to Palomares, and the part encompassed by the 1840 addition, to
   Dalton.

   After statehood, Palomares and Vejar applied for a patent of their rancho lands. The petition was filed in
   1852, but as was typical of this complicated, expensive, and often controversy-laden process, their title was
   not proven until 1875. Before the patent was granted, the prolonged droughts of the 1860s intervened, ruin-
   ing many Californios, including Ricardo Vejar. In 1864 Vejar lost his section of Rancho San José to debts held
   by Isaac Schlesinger and Hyman Tischler of Los Angeles. The new owners turned over management of the
   property to Louis Phillips. A resourceful operator, Phillips bought the land from Schlesinger and Tischler two
   years later. Additional scattered settlement of the Pomona Valley by pioneer ranchers continued into the
   1870s. (Pomona Centennial-Bicentennial Committee, 1976: 11-13).

   In 1873 Louis Phillips provided a right-of-way through his land to the Southern Pacific Railroad, and with its
   impending arrival, the idea of a town in the Pomona Valley began to take hold. In 1874 the Los Angeles Im-
   migration and Land Co-Operative Association was formed. The new company purchased an interest in the Phil-
   lips and the Palomares sections of Rancho San José and recorded a townsite in 1875. A naming contest was
   held for the new town; the winning entry was Pomona, the Roman goddess of fruitful abundance. In typical
   frontier fashion, the map included a gridded central townsite of city lots, ringed around the periphery by fam-
   ily farm parcels averaging forty acres in size.

   Despite the railroad's arrival, and the recorded townsite, growth in the new community remained unimpressive
   into the early 1880s. In 1882 interests in the townsite were purchased by Cyrus Mills and M.L. Wicks, who
   sought out new water sources, and reincorporated the enterprise as the Pomona Land and Water Company. An
   immense regional land boom arrived in 1887, and Pomona's fortunes rose along with it. Though the land rush
   lasted barely a year, Pomona had grown sufficiently as a result to justify incorporation in 1888. (Robinson,
   1939: 199-217)

   Agriculture in the Pomona Valley evolved from vineyards and wine during the 1880s, to olives, deciduous
   fruits, and ultimately, citrus. The valley also became an important center for cattle ranching and dairy produc-
   tion. Citrus crops, first planted commercially in the valley in 1872 by Cyrus Burdick, began to define the
   economy and character of the community after the turn of the century, as it did across the Southern California
   foothills during this period. By 1900 Pomona had became an important center of the citrus industry, sur-
   rounded by verdant groves of oranges and lemons, and the location of numerous packing houses. Along with
   the expansion of citriculture, by 1900 the town's population had grown to 5,000 residents. Pomona was inte-
   grated into the regional grid with its connection to the Pacific Electric interurban "Red Car" system in 1912.
   (Pomona Centennial-Bicentennial Committee, 1976: 22, 74, 80-85; Crump, 1983: 230)

   Agriculture and other industries continued to drive economic expansion in Pomona, to the extent that it be-
   came one of the largest cities in Los Angeles County by the end of the 1920s, rising to a population of over
   25,000 by 1930. During the postwar period, Pomona was reshaped into one of the regional centers of the Cold
   War aerospace industry, most notably with the arrival of a huge facility to house the Convair Division of Gen-
   eral Dynamics during the early 1950s. The completion of the San Bernardino Freeway in 1954 connected Po-
   mona to the automotive grid that had superseded the interurban railroads as the primary regional transporta-
   tion method after the war. The results were massive suburban growth, the creation of commercial strips along
   the city's main arterials, and the steady loss of the agriculture that had shaped and defined the city during its
   first seven decades.




SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                    Page 4 of 10
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



      Pomona's central role in the county's agricultural industry was solidified when it became the home of the Los
      Angeles County Fair in 1922. The city purchased 43 acres of the Vejar estate north of Ganesha Park for the
      construction of fairgrounds, including exhibit halls and a racetrack. With the success of the first fair in 1922,
      the size of the fairgrounds was more than doubled the following year. Construction of facilities continued
      through the 1920s and 1930s, and at a particularly accelerated rate after pari-mutual wagering on horse rac-
      ing was legalized in California in 1933 and introduced at the Los Angeles County Fair. The fairgrounds were
      expanded further in the 1940s. A drag racing course named Pomona Raceway was added to the fairgrounds in
      1953.

      Property-Specific Context

      The non-vacant portion of the project site is located on a roughly 2.58 acre section of the original 35.90 acre
      Block 220 of the Pomona Tract recorded in 1875. It is presently unknown who first purchased this farm lot,
      which was bounded by the Southern Pacific Railroad right-of-way on the south, Holt Avenue on the north,
      Hamilton Boulevard on the east, and another farm parcel on the west. Family ranches were established on
      these larger parcels located around the periphery of the townsite, primarily from the mid-1880s through the
      1910s. A 1½ story residence constructed circa 1885, a trailer park, and several commercial and utility building
      constructed circa 1947, are currently located on this property.

      By the 1920s, urban-style land subdivisions began to encroach into this area as the city expanded, breaking
      down many of the original farm parcels into lots sizes more suitable for residential and commercial develop-
      ment. Some of these land divisions were accomplished by means of recorded subdivision maps, while others
      were the result of ad-hoc metes and bounds methods. The latter type are far more difficult to trace in terms of
      date and ownership. However, it appears that by the early 1920s the subject parcel was roughly 0.74 acres in
      size and fronted onto Holt Avenue.

      The earliest known, probable owners of this property were Louis W. and Mary M. Shaeffer. They apparently ar-
      rived in Pomona from Texas during the 1910s and are first found at this location circa 1920. Little additional
      information was located on this family. By 1930 the property was apparently owned by Frank C. and Mae Bon-
      ser. He was a real estate agent. In 1937 the property was occupied by Joseph L. Bernard, an ironworker, and
      his wife Anita.

      By 1945 the property was owned by Franz C. Richter. At this time the property may have been joined to a par-
      cel to the south to encompass its current area of 2.58 acres, but the timing of this event is presently uncer-
      tain. It is known, however, that within two years, this entire property was developed as Rick's Trailer Court. At
      around this time, two small commercial buildings were constructed on the property adjacent to Holt Avenue,
      and a commercial addition attached to the northern elevation of the house. A number of other buildings on
      the property, including a garage and residence, also appear to have been constructed during the period 1946-
      7, or perhaps moved to the site and altered at that time. According to building permit files, a building of 800
      square feet was moved to the site in 1959.1

      The conversion of this property to a trailer court serving transient residents is consistent with the evolution of
      this stretch of W. Holt Avenue in the postwar period. A number of other trailer courts and motels were con-
      structed in the vicinity during the 1940s and 1950s. This period coincides with the expansion of the Los An-
      geles County Fairgrounds and the rapid industrial growth and in Pomona in the postwar period. It has been

1   The primary building permit street address file for this property was unavailable for examination at the time the research for
    this report was being conducted.



SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                                 Page 5 of 10
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



    suggested that one of the factors driving the creation of transient housing in this section of Pomona during
    this period was the increasing importance of horse racing at the Fairgrounds. This information was provided to
    the preparers verbally by the Pomona Valley Historical Society. This context does not appear to be otherwise
    documented.

    Franz Charles Richter died in 1946 but his second wife Carmelita remained on the property until a few years
    prior to her death in 1982. The management of Rick's Trailer Park was taken over at some point during the
    1950s by Harold F. Richter, the son of Franz Richter by his first wife. Born in Corona in 1925, Harold Franz
    Richter was a combat veteran who served in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific Theater during World War II. He ap-
    parently did not return to Pomona until the late 1950s. After his return, he worked as a sign painter and
    graphic artist, running his business, A&A Signs, out of one of the commercial buildings on the property. He
    was an active member of the community and participated in a number of service and social clubs in the city.
    He is found living elsewhere in Pomona during the 1960s, though at the time of his death in 1977, his ad-
    dress was listed as 934 W. Holt Avenue. The property was purchased by the Redevelopment Agency of the City
    of Pomona in 2006, with at least one additional property owner intervening. (Pomona Progress Bulletin; 8-9-
    1977, 7-15-1982; California Death Index; City Directories; Telephone Directories)

4. Potential Historic Resources

    The project site consists of a several buildings, including a wood frame residence, two stucco-clad commercial
    buildings, and two additional residences. The balance of the site is a trailer park featuring older trailer
    coaches organized around an internal driveway loop. The original owner of this property is not currently
    known, though it is likely that much of its current appearance is the result of alterations made circa 1947
    when the property was converted to a trailer court by the Richter family.

    Residence 1. This 1½ story wood frame residence with an attached commercial wing features a high-pitched
    cross-gabled roof. The main body of the building is clad in wide horizontal shiplap siding with fish scale shin-
    gles under the gable ends. A slanted bay covered by a shed roof supported by brackets projects from the west-
    ern elevation. Windows in the main body of the house are primarily narrow sash with undecorated casings.
    Cutout brackets are located under the eaves and small cutout pendants are found within the gable ends. Eaves
    are shallow and boxed. A hip-roofed single story wing projects from the rear (southern) elevation. Based on
    visual appearance (mismatched siding, attached rooflines), this wing appears to have been constructed in at
    least three stages. A small, rectangular-plan stucco-clad commercial wing with a parapeted roof is attached to
    the front (northern) elevation of the residence by means of a wood-sided hyphen. An entry to the commercial
    wing is centered on the northern elevation and above a small flight of concrete steps. The windows are small,
    and boarded over. The foundation material is concrete in some locations and covered with wood skirting in
    others.

    The residence was probably constructed circa 1885, based on the remaining evidence of its original architec-
    tural style, which is essentially a Folk Victorian interpretation of the Stick Style as it was commonly con-
    structed in Southern California from the 1870s through the early 1890s. The main body of the wing to the rear
    of the building appears to date from circa 1900. The commercial wing and its attachment to the front of the
    residence are undated, but based on visual appearance and known uses of the property was probably con-
    structed circa 1947. [Photos 1-3]

    Commercial Building 1. This rectangular plan building located at the northeastern corner of the property is
    stucco clad and features a parapeted roof. A single entry door is located off-center on the right side of the
    northern elevation. Windows are aluminum. It was probably constructed circa 1947 when the property was


SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                    Page 6 of 10
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



    converted to a trailer court by the Richter family. The degree of alterations is difficult to determine, but it
    seems likely to have once featured a display window facing Holt Avenue. This building is stylistically indis-
    tinct. [Photo 4]

    Commercial Building 2. This rectangular plan building located at the northwestern corner of the property is
    stucco clad and features a parapeted roof. A single entry door is located off-center to the right on the north-
    ern elevation with a display window to the left. Windows are aluminum. The building was probably built circa
    1947 when the property was converted to a trailer court by the Richter family. The degree of alterations is
    difficult to determine, but visual evidence suggests that at least one window or door opening on the eastern
    elevation was closed. This building is stylistically indistinct. [Photo 5]

    Residence 2. This rectangular plan building is located to the rear (south) of Residence 2. It is stucco clad
    and features a medium-pitched gable roof with shallow, open eaves and exposed rafter tails. Windows are
    aluminum. The building was probably built or moved to this location circa 1947 when the property was con-
    verted to a trailer court by the Richter family, or later. The degree of alterations is difficult to determine, but
    it appears this building was converted to a residence from a garage. It is stylistically indistinct. [Photo 6]

    Residence 3. This rectangular plan building is located to the rear (south) of Residence 2. It is stucco clad
    and features a medium-pitched gable roof with shallow, open eaves and exposed rafter tails. A secondary ga-
    ble roof wing is inset under the main roofline on the western elevation. Entry doors are located on the eastern
    and western elevations above low concrete stoops. Windows are aluminum. The building appears to be a heav-
    ily altered circa 1920 California Bungalow that was probably moved to this location circa 1947 when the
    property was converted to a trailer court by the Franz Richter family, or later. The degree of alterations is dif-
    ficult to determine, but the windows are likely not original construction. This building is stylistically indis-
    tinct. [Photo 7]

    Trailer Court. The balance of a property is a trailer court consisting of older trailer coaches organized around
    a looped asphalt driveway. The majority of the approximately 25 coaches appear to date from the 1950s and
    later. [Photos 8, 9]

5. Eligibility of Historic Resources

    National and California Registers: Significance, Eligibility and Integrity

    This property does not appear to be closely associated with any historical event. Residence 1 (constructed
    circa 1885) is no longer representative of the early settlement of Pomona during the 1880s due to the exten-
    sive alterations that occurred to the building, primarily after circa 1947 when the property was converted to a
    trailer court. It is generally representative of the evolution of this section of W. Holt Avenue to automobile-
    oriented businesses during the postwar era, but it does not appear to have played any notable role in this
    transition (NRHP Criterion A and CRHR Criterion 1). The property was owned from circa 1945 through at least
    the mid-1970s by the Richter family. Harold F. Richter was an active member of the Pomona community but he
    does not appear to have lived on this property for more than a short time near the end of his life (NRHP Crite-
    rion B and CRHR Criterion 2). None of the extant buildings on the property are representative examples of an
    architectural style or type of construction (NRHP Criterion C and CRHR Criterion 3). Residence 1 is a highly
    altered example of a Folk Victorian house and the other buildings on the property are extensively altered.

    NRHP Criterion D and CRHR Criterion 4 pertain to archeological resources and consequently have not been
    evaluated in this report.



SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                        Page 7 of 10
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



   Local Significance and Eligibility

   Criterion 1: This property does not appear to "exemplif[y] or reflect[s] special elements of the City of Po-
   mona's cultural, social, economic, political, aesthetic, engineering, architectural, or natural history." The
   property is a combination of a highly altered example of a circa 1885 residence, and a typical example of
   automobile-oriented postwar development from the late 1940s.

   Criterion 2: It does not appear to be "identified with persons or events significant in local, state, or national
   history." The original owner is not currently known. Harold Richter appears to have been somewhat active in
   community affairs, but not to a significant extent. His association with the property also appears to be some-
   what tenuous, as he seems to have lived elsewhere while managing the trailer court, at least into the 1960s.

   Criterion 3: It does not "embod[y] distinctive characteristics of a style, type, period, or method of construc-
   tion, or is a valuable example of the use of indigenous materials or craftsmanship." The buildings on the
   property are a highly altered example of a circa 1885 residence, and a typical example of automobile-oriented
   postwar development from the late 1940s.

   Criterion 4: The property does not "contribute[s] to the significance of a historic area, being a geographically
   definable area possessing a concentration of historic or scenic properties or thematically related grouping of
   properties which contribute to each other and are unified aesthetically by plan or physical development." This
   property does not appear to have the ability to contribute to the formation of a historic district in this area.

   Criterion 5: This property does not appear to be "the work of a notable building, designer, landscape designer,
   or architect." Building permits for this property were not available for examination but it appears unlikely
   that a known or notable designer was responsible for any of the buildings on the property.

   Criterion 6: The property does not represent "a unique location or singular physical characteristics or is a view
   or vista representing an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, community, or the City of
   Pomona." It is one of numerous examples of its type in the city.

   Criterion 7: The property does not "embod[y] elements of architectural design, detail, materials, or craftsman-
   ship that represent a significant structural or architectural achievement or innovation." The buildings on the
   property are a highly altered example of a circa 1885 residence, and a typical example of automobile-oriented
   postwar development from the late 1940s.

   Criterion 8: The property does not appear to be "similar to other distinctive properties, sites, areas, or objects
   based on a historic, cultural, or architectural motif." This and other commercial arterials in Pomona were re-
   cently evaluated citywide as part of the Corridors Specific Plan. The historic resources evaluation associated
   with this planning effort did not identify this property as significant or eligible. (Rincon Consultants, 2013)

   Criterion 9: The property does not appear to "reflect[s] significant geographical patterns, including those as-
   sociated with different eras of settlement and growth, particular transportation modes, or distinctive exam-
   ples of park or community planning." The buildings on the property are a highly altered example of a circa
   1885 residence, and a typical example of automobile-oriented postwar development from the late 1940s.

   Criterion 10: The property does not appear to be "one of the few remaining examples in the City of Pomona,
   region, state, or nation possessing distinguishing characteristics of an architectural or historical type or
   specimen." The property is a combination of a highly altered example of a circa 1885 residence, and a typical
   example of automobile-oriented postwar development from the late 1940s.


SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                     Page 8 of 10
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



   Conclusion

   No buildings on this property appear to be eligible for listing on the NRHP, CRHR or for City of Pomona Land-
   mark designation. Therefore this property should not be regarded as a historic resource for the purposes of
   CEQA.




SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                 Page 9 of 10
Historic Resources Report
934 W. Holt Avenue, Pomona



6. Selected Sources

   Brackett, Frank Parkhurst. History of Pomona Valley, California, with biographical sketches of the leading men
   and women of the valley who have been identified with its growth and development from the early days to the
   present. Los Angeles: Historic Record Company, 1920.

   City Directories, various years.

   Cowan, Robert G. Ranchos of California. Los Angeles: Historical Society of Southern California, 1977.

   Crump, Spenser. Ride the Big Red Cars: The Pacific Electric Story. Glendale: Trans-Anglo Books, 1983.

   Los Angeles County Maps of Record.

   McAlester, Virginia and Lee. A Field Guide to American Houses. New York: Alfed A. Knopf, 1984.

   Pomona Centennial-Bicentennial Committee. Pomona Centennial History. Pomona: Pomona Centennial-
   Bicentennial Committee, August, 1976

   Pomona Building Permit Records.

   Pomona Progress Bulletin.

   Rincon Consultants, Inc. Corridors Specific Plan, Active Transportation Plan And Green Plan, Volume II Draft
   Environmental Impact Report Appendices. City of Pomona, July 2013.

   Robinson, W.W. Ranchos become Cities. Pasadena, CA: San Pasqual Press, 1939.

   United States Census.

   USGS, Pomona 15' Quadrangle, edition of 1898.

   USGS, San Dimas 7.5' Quadrangle, edition of 1954.




SAN BUENAVENTURA RESEARCH ASSOCIATES                                                                  Page 10 of 10
Photo 1. Residence 1, northern and western elevations. [9-4-2013]




Photo 2. Residence 1, western elevation. [9-4-2013]




Photo 3. Residence 1, eastern and northern elevation. [9-4-2013]
Photo 4. Commercial Building 1, northern and western elevations. [9-4-2013]




Photo 5. Commercial Building 2, northern and eastern elevations. [9-4-2013]




Photo 6. Residence 2, eastern elevation. [9-4-2013]
Photo 7. Residence 3, western and southern elevations. [9-4-2013]




Photo 8. Representative trailer coaches. [9-4-2013]




Photo 9. Oblique aerial of property, viewed from east. [Google Maps]
                    Appendix C
Traffic Impact Study (Linscott, Law, &
               Greenspan, Engineers)
                                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION                                                                                                                                          PAGE

        Executive Summary................................................................................................................... iv

1.0     Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 1
        1.1 Study Area .......................................................................................................................... 3

2.0     Project Description ....................................................................................................................       4
        2.1 Site Location .......................................................................................................................      4
        2.2 Existing Project Site ...........................................................................................................          4
        2.3 Proposed Project Description ............................................................................................                  4

3.0     Site Access and Circulation ......................................................................................................             6
        3.1 Existing Site Access ...........................................................................................................           6
        3.2 Vehicular Project Site Access ............................................................................................                 6
        3.3 Pedestrian Access ...............................................................................................................          6
        3.4 Bicycle Access ...................................................................................................................         7

4.0     Existing Street System ............................................................................................................... 9
        4.1 Regional Highway System ................................................................................................ 9
        4.2 Local Roadway System ..................................................................................................... 9
        4.3 Roadway Classifications .................................................................................................... 9
        4.4 Roadway Descriptions ....................................................................................................... 11
        4.5 Public Transit Services....................................................................................................... 12

5.0     Traffic Counts ............................................................................................................................ 15

6.0     Cumulative Development Projects .......................................................................................... 18
        6.1 Ambient Traffic Growth Factor......................................................................................... 18

7.0     Traffic Forecasting Methodology ............................................................................................ 19
        7.1 Project Traffic Generation ................................................................................................. 19
        7.2 Project Traffic Distribution and Assignment .................................................................... 21

8.0     Traffic Impact Analysis Methodology .................................................................................... 24
        8.1 Impact Criteria and Thresholds ......................................................................................... 24
        8.2 Traffic Impact Analysis Scenarios .................................................................................... 26

9.0     Traffic Analysis .......................................................................................................................... 27
        9.1 Existing Conditions ............................................................................................................ 27
             9.1.1 Existing Conditions ............................................................................................... 27
             9.1.2 Existing With Project Conditions ......................................................................... 27
        9.2 Future Conditions ............................................................................................................... 27
             9.2.1 Future Without Conditions.................................................................................... 27
             9.2.2 Future With Project Conditions ............................................................................ 31


LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                                                         LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                          i                                          Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                                                     O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc
                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
SECTION                                                                                                                                         PAGE

10.0 Congestion Management Program Traffic Impact Assessment ......................................... 33
     10.1 Intersections ........................................................................................................................ 33
     10.2 Freeways ............................................................................................................................. 34
     10.3 Transit Impact Review ....................................................................................................... 34

11.0 Conclusions ................................................................................................................................. 36


                                                            LIST OF TABLES
SECTION--TABLE #                                                                                                                                PAGE

4­1        Existing Transit Routes ............................................................................................................ 13
5­1        Existing Traffic Volumes ......................................................................................................... 16
7­1        Project Trip Generation.................................................................................................... 20
8­1        City of Pomona Intersection Impact Threshold Criteria ......................................................... 25
9­1        Levels of Service Summary ..................................................................................................... 28


                                                               APPENDICES
APPENDIX

A.         Manual Traffic Count Data
B.         HCS and Levels of Service Explanation
           HCS Data Worksheets ­ Weekday AM and PM Peak Hours




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                                                        LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                         ii                                         Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                                                    O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc
                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
SECTION--FIGURE #                                                                                                                                PAGE

1­1        Vicinity Map ............................................................................................................................. 2
2­1        Project Site Plan ........................................................................................................................ 5
4­1        Existing Lane Configurations .......................................................................................... 10
4­2        Existing Public Transit Routes ................................................................................................. 14
5­1        Existing Traffic Volumes ­ Weekday AM and PM Peak Hours ........................................... 17
7­1        Project Trip Distribution .......................................................................................................... 22
7­2        Project Traffic Volumes ­ Weekday AM and PM Peak Hours ............................................. 23
9­1        Existing With Project Traffic Volumes ­ Weekday AM and PM Peak Hours ..................... 29
9­2        Future Without Project Traffic Volumes ­ Weekday AM and PM Peak Hours ................... 30
9­3        Future With Project Traffic Volumes ­ Weekday AM and PM Peak Hours ........................ 32




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                                                         LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                         iii                                         Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                                                     O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc
                                              TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
                                       HOLT FAMILY APARTMENTS PROJECT
                                              City of Pomona, California
                                                      April 9, 2013


Executive Summary
This traffic analysis has been prepared to identify and evaluate the potential traffic impacts of the
proposed Holt Family Apartments project. The proposed project is located at 934 West Holt
Avenue in the City of Pomona, California. The project applicant seeks to obtain entitlements to
demolish the existing buildings on the project site and construct an apartment complex with a
total of 62 dwelling units. The apartment complex will include extensive green and landscape
space throughout the site with connections to the adjacent sidewalk provided along Holt Avenue.
It is concluded herein that the proposed project is not expected to cause any potentially
significant impacts at the study intersections.

The traffic analysis follows City of Pomona traffic study guidelines and is consistent with traffic
impact assessment guidelines set forth in the Los Angeles County Congestion Management
Program. This traffic analysis evaluates potential project-related impacts at two key
intersections in the vicinity of the project site. The study intersections were determined in
consultation with City of Pomona Public Works Department staff. The Highway Capacity
Manual analysis method was used to determine the Levels of Service for the study intersections.
A review was also conducted of Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
freeway and intersection monitoring stations to determine if a Congestion Management Program
transportation impact assessment analysis is required for the proposed project.

Access to the proposed project site will be consolidated to a single driveway (i.e., reduced from
the existing four site driveways), thus reducing potential turning movements conflicts for traffic
along Holt Avenue and opposing driveways situated on the north side of Holt Avenue.
Vehicular access to the site will be provided via a single driveway located in essentially the same
location as the existing easterly site driveway on Holt Avenue. The project site driveway will be
modified to accommodate two-way traffic and full access (i.e., left-turn and right-turn ingress
and egress turning movements). Additionally, the project site access has been configured to
include a driveway throat sufficient in length to preclude inbound vehicle queuing back out onto
the public right-of-way. The project site driveway will be constructed to City of Pomona design
standards.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                  LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                         iv                   Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                              O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc
                                              TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
                                       HOLT FAMILY APARTMENTS PROJECT
                                              City of Pomona, California
                                                      April 9, 2013




1.0        INTRODUCTION
This traffic analysis has been conducted to identify and evaluate the potential traffic impacts of
the proposed Holt Family Apartments project ("proposed project"). The proposed project is
located at 934 West Holt Avenue in the City of Pomona, California. The project applicant seeks
to obtain entitlements to demolish the existing buildings on the project site and construct an
apartment complex with a total of 62 dwelling units. The proposed project site is bounded by
Holt Avenue to the north, existing single-family residential development to the south, and
existing commercial development to the east and west. The project site location and general
vicinity are shown in Figure 1­1.

The traffic analysis follows City of Pomona traffic study guidelines1 and is consistent with traffic
impact assessment guidelines set forth in the Los Angeles County Congestion Management
Program2. This traffic analysis evaluates potential project-related impacts at two key
intersections in the vicinity of the project site. The study intersections were determined in
consultation with City of Pomona Public Works Department (PPWD) staff. The Highway
Capacity Manual analysis method was used to determine Levels of Service for the study
intersections. A review also was conducted of Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority freeway and intersection monitoring stations to determine if a Congestion
Management Program transportation impact assessment analysis is required for the proposed
project.

This study (i) presents existing traffic volumes, (ii) includes existing traffic volumes with the
forecast net new traffic volumes from the proposed project, (iii) recommends mitigation
measures, where necessary, (iv) forecasts future cumulative baseline traffic volumes, (v)
forecasts future traffic volumes with the proposed project, (vi) determines future forecast with
project-related impacts, and (vii) recommends mitigation measures, where necessary.




1
 Traffic Impact Study Guidelines, City of Pomona Public Works Department, February 2012.
2
  2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County, Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, 2010.

LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                      LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                  Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                  O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                        -1-
-2-
1.1        Study Area
Upon coordination with PPWD staff, two study intersections have been identified for evaluation
during the weekday morning and afternoon peak hours. The study intersections provide local
access to the study area and define the extent of the boundaries for this traffic impact analysis.
Further discussion of the existing street system and study area is provided in Section 3.0.

The traffic impact study area was determined in consultation with PPWD staff and in compliance
with the criteria set forth in the City's traffic study guidelines. Based on these guidelines, the
minimum area to be studied included any intersection of Collector type or higher classification
street with Collector type or higher classification roadways, at which the proposed project will
add 50 or more weekday AM and PM peak hour trips. However, as the proposed project will not
generate 50 or more weekday peak hour trips, the two nearest signalized intersections with
Collector type or higher classification streets along Holt Avenue were identified for analysis.

The general location of the project in relation to the study locations and surrounding street
system is presented in Figure 1­1. The traffic analysis study area is generally comprised of those
locations which have the greatest potential to experience significant traffic impacts due to the
proposed project as defined by the Lead Agency. In the traffic engineering practice, the study
area generally includes those intersections that are:

           a.         Immediately adjacent or in close proximity to the project site;

           b.         In the vicinity of the project site that are documented to have current or projected
                      future adverse operational issues; and

           c.         In the vicinity of the project site that are forecast to experience a relatively greater
                      percentage of project-related vehicular turning movements (e.g., at freeway ramp
                      intersections).

The locations selected for analysis were based on the above criteria, proposed Holt Family
Apartments project peak hour vehicle trip generation, the anticipated distribution of project
vehicular trips and existing intersection/corridor operations.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                           LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                       Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                       O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                       -3-
2.0        PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1        Site Location
The proposed Holt Family Apartments project is located at 934 West Holt Avenue in the City of
Pomona, California. The project applicant seeks to obtain entitlements to demolish the existing
buildings on the project site and construct an apartment complex with a total of 62 dwelling
units. The proposed project site is bounded by Holt Avenue to the north, existing single-family
residential development to the south, and existing commercial development to the east and west.
The project site location and general vicinity are shown in Figure 1­1.

Holt Avenue is identified as one of the principal east-west arterials and commercial corridors in
the City of Pomona, aligning approximately parallel to the Metrolink/Amtrak tracks which are
located about one-quarter mile to the south.3 The portion of Holt Avenue in which the proposed
project is located (i.e., between North Weber Street to White Avenue) includes smaller blocks,
miscellaneous single-family houses, and residential conversion sites in conjunction with the mix
of strip retail and auto service uses. The local and arterial street system pattern in the proposed
project study area form a typical grid pattern.

2.2        Existing Project Site
The existing project site is presently occupied by a trailer home park with a total of
approximately 19 dwelling units. All of the existing dwelling units on the site will be relocated.
At present, access to the existing project site is provided via four driveways situated on the
northerly property frontage along Holt Avenue.

2.3        Proposed Project Description
The project applicant seeks to obtain entitlements for development of an apartment complex with
a total of 62 dwelling units. The apartment complex will include extensive green and landscape
space throughout the site with connections to the adjacent sidewalk provided along Holt Avenue.
The site plan for the proposed Holt Family Apartments project is illustrated in Figure 2-1.
Construction and occupancy of the proposed project is planned to be completed by the year
2014.

As shown in Figure 2-1, a total of 73 parking spaces is planned to be provided as part of the
proposed project. Of this total, a minimum of three parking spaces will need to be Americans
With Disabilities Act handicap accessible spaces. Vehicular access to the site will be provided
via a single driveway located in essentially the same location as the existing easterly site
driveway on Holt Avenue. Further discussion of the proposed project site access and circulation
schemes is provided in Section 3.0.




3
    Chapter 7, Mobility & Access, City of Pomona 2011 General Plan Update.

LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                 LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                             Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                             O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                       -4-
-5-
3.0        SITE ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
The proposed site access scheme for the Holt Family Apartments project is displayed in Figure
2-1. A description of the proposed site access and circulation scheme is provided in the
following subsections.

3.1        Existing Site Access
Vehicular access to the existing site is presently provided via a total of four driveways situated
on the northerly property frontage along Holt Avenue. It is noted that the two existing site
driveways that provide direct access to the trailer home park are one-way driveways, with the
westerly driveway inbound only and the easterly driveway outbound only. Also, it is noted that
the remaining two existing site driveways on Holt Avenue are blocked and currently not in use
for vehicular access. In addition, it is noted that the three existing westerly driveways on Holt
Avenue will be closed pursuant to City standards with concrete curb, gutter and sidewalk as part
of the proposed project. The remaining site driveway (i.e., the easterly driveway located at the
northeast corner of the project site) will be modified and used for vehicular site access for the
proposed project as described below.

3.2        Vehicular Project Site Access
Access to the proposed project site will be consolidated to a single driveway, thus reducing
potential turning movements conflicts for traffic along Holt Avenue and opposing driveways
situated on the north side of Holt Avenue. Vehicular access to the site will be provided via a
single driveway located in essentially the same location as the existing easterly site driveway on
Holt Avenue. The project site driveway will be modified to accommodate two-way traffic and
full access (i.e., left-turn and right-turn ingress and egress turning movements). An existing two-
way left-turn lane is provided on Holt Avenue that can provide a storage area for left-turning
vehicles into the site. Additionally, the project site access has been configured to include a
driveway throat sufficient in length to preclude inbound vehicle queuing back out onto the public
right-of-way. The project site driveway will be constructed to City of Pomona design standards.

3.3        Pedestrian Access
The project site has been configured to facilitate pedestrian activity and walking as a
transportation mode 4. As indicated in Figure 2­1, the proposed project will connect to adjacent
sidewalks but site enhancements are planned to facilitate connectivity and walkability.
Walkability is a term for the extent to which walking is readily available as a safe, connected,
accessible and pleasant mode of transport. There are several criteria that are widely accepted as
key aspects of the walkability of urban areas that should be satisfied. The underlying principle is
that pedestrians should not be delayed, diverted, or placed in danger. The widely accepted
characteristics of walkability are as follows:

4
  For example, refer to http://www.walkscore.com/, which generates a walkability score of approximately 51
(Somewhat Walkable) out of 100 for the project site. Walk Score calculates the walkability of an address by
locating nearby stores, restaurants, schools, parks, etc. Walk Score measures how easy it is to live a car-lite
lifestyle--not how pretty the area is for walking.

LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                                 LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                             Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                             O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                         -6-
      ·    Connectivity: People can walk from one place to another without encountering major
           obstacles, obstructions, or loss of connectivity.

      ·    Convivial: Pedestrian routes are friendly and attractive, and are perceived as such by
           pedestrians.

      ·    Conspicuous: Suitable levels of lighting, visibility and surveillance over its entire length,
           with high quality delineation and signage.

      ·    Comfortable: High quality and well-maintained footpaths of suitable widths, attractive
           landscaping and architecture, shelter and rest spaces, and a suitable allocation of
           roadspace to pedestrians.

      ·    Convenient: Walking is a realistic travel choice, partly because of the impact of the other
           criteria set forth above, but also because walking routes are of a suitable length as a result
           of land use planning with minimal delays.

A review of the project site location and pedestrian walkway network indicates that these five
primary characteristics are accommodated as part of the proposed project. The project site will
include extensive green and landscape space throughout the site with connections to the adjacent
sidewalk provided along Holt Avenue, which in turn provide connectivity with other area
corridors. As such, the majority of pedestrian access to the project site is envisioned to occur via
the existing public sidewalks provided along both sides of Holt Avenue. In addition, it is noted
that the site's internal pedestrian walkways and adjacent sidewalks should be appropriately
landscaped and adorned to provide a friendly walking environment.

3.4        Bicycle Access
Bicycle access to and from the project site will be facilitated in the future by the planned City of
Pomona's bicycle roadway network. A total of four bicycle facilities (i.e., Class II Bike Lanes, or
Class III Bike Routes) in the City's planned bicycle network will be located within the
immediate proximity from the project site. These four bicycle facilities will in the future connect
with the City's proposed bicycle network. The following key bicycle routes planned to be
located near the Holt Family Apartments project site:

      ·    North-South Routes

           -    Dudley Street:                    Class III Bike Route

           -    Hamilton Boulevard:               Class II Bike Lane

      ·    East-West Routes

           -    Orange Grove Avenue:              Class II Bike Lane

           -    Laurel Avenue:                    Class III Bike Route

LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                      LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                  Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                  O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                   -7-
Class II bikeways are lanes on the outside edge of roadways reserved for the exclusive use of
bicycles and are designated with special signing and pavement markings. Class III bikeways are
roadways recommended for bicycle use and are designated with signs posted along roadways.
Enhanced Class III bikeways include 4" white edgelines and "Share the Road" signage.

Use of bicycles as a transportation mode to and from the project site will be encouraged by the
provision of ample and safe bicycle parking facilities. Convenient bicycle parking spaces are
recommended for the residents and visitors of the proposed project site.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                              LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                          Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                          O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                             -8-
4.0        EXISTING STREET SYSTEM
4.1        Regional Highway System
Regional access to the project site is provided by I-10 Freeway and State Route 57 Freeway as
shown in Figure 1-1. Brief descriptions of the I-10 and State Route 57 Freeways are provided in
the following paragraphs.

I-10 Freeway is a major east-west oriented freeway connecting the Inland Empire to the east
with Santa Monica to the west. I-10 Freeway generally contains four mainline freeway lanes and
one high-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lane in each direction along with auxiliary lanes in the
project vicinity. On-ramps and off-ramps to/from the freeway in the project vicinity are
provided at Fairplex Drive, Dudley Street, and White Avenue.

State Route 71 Freeway a north-south oriented freeway connecting the eastern San Gabriel
Valley area to the north with Orange County to the south. State Route 71 Freeway generally
contains two mainline freeway lanes in each direction in the project vicinity. On-ramps and off-
ramps to/from the freeway in the project vicinity are provided at Holt Avenue and Mission
Boulevard.

4.2        Local Roadway System
Immediate access to the project site is provided via Holt Avenue. The following study
intersections were selected in consultation with PPWD staff for analysis of potential impacts due
to the proposed project:

           1. Dudley Street/Holt Avenue

           2. Hamilton Boulevard/Holt Avenue

Both study intersections selected for analysis are presently controlled by traffic signals. The
existing lane configurations at the study intersections are displayed in Figure 4­1.

4.3        Roadway Classifications
The City of Pomona utilizes the roadway categories recognized by regional, state and federal
transportation agencies. There are four categories in the roadway hierarchy, ranging from
freeways with the highest capacity to two-lane undivided roadways with the lowest capacity.
The roadway categories are summarized as follows:

      ·    Freeways are limited-access and high speed travel ways included in the state and federal
           highway systems. Their purpose is to carry regional through-traffic. Access is provided
           by interchanges with typical spacing of one mile or greater. No local access is provided
           to adjacent land uses.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                  LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                              Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                             O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                 -9-
- 10 -
      x    Arterial roadways are major streets that primarily serve through-traffic and provide
           access to abutting properties as a secondary function. Arterials are generally designed
           with two to six travel lanes and their major intersections are signalized. This roadway
           type is divided into two categories: principal and minor arterials. Principal arterials are
           typically four-or-more lane roadways and serve both local and regional through-traffic.
           Minor arterials are typically two-to-four lane streets that service local and commute
           traffic.

      x    Collector roadways are streets that provide access and traffic circulation within
           residential and non-residential (e.g., commercial and industrial) areas. Collector
           roadways connect local streets to arterials and are typically designed with two through
           travel lanes (i.e., one through travel lane in each direction) that may accommodate on-
           street parking. They may also provide access to abutting properties.

      x    Local roadways distribute traffic within a neighborhood, or similar adjacent
           neighborhoods, and are not intended for use as a through-street or a link between higher
           capacity facilities such as collector or arterial roadways. Local streets are fronted by
           residential uses and do not typically serve commercial uses.

4.4        Roadway Descriptions
A brief description of the important roadways in the project vicinity is provided in the following
paragraphs.

Dudley Street is a north-south oriented roadway that is located west of the project site. Dudley
Street is designated as a Minor Arterial in the Mobility & Access chapter of the City of Pomona
Draft General Plan Update. Dudley Street is a discontinuous roadway that extends from
just north of I-10 Freeway to Holt Avenue to the south. Two through travel lanes are generally
provided in each direction on the roadway within the project study area. Dual left-turn lanes and
a right-turn only lane are provided at the southbound approach on Dudley Street at the Holt
Avenue intersection. Dudley Street is posted for a 35 miles per hour speed limit in the project
vicinity.

Hamilton Boulevard is a north-south oriented roadway that is located east of the project site.
Hamilton Boulevard is designated as a Collector roadway in the Mobility & Access chapter of
the City of Pomona Draft General Plan Update. Two through travel lanes are generally
provided in each direction on the roadway within the project study area. A two-way left-turn
lane is also provided along Hamilton Boulevard, north of Holt Avenue. Separate left-turn lanes
are provided in both directions on Hamilton Boulevard at the Holt Avenue intersection.
Hamilton Boulevard is posted for a 35 miles per hour speed limit in the project vicinity.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                    LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                 - 11 -
Holt Avenue is an east-west oriented roadway that borders the project site to the north. Holt
Avenue is designated as a Major Arterial in the Mobility & Access chapter of the City of
Pomona Draft General Plan Update. Two through travel lanes are generally provided in
each direction on the roadway within the project study area. Separate left-turn lanes are provided
in both directions on Holt Avenue at the Dudley Street and Hamilton Boulevard study
intersections. A two-way left-turn lane is also provided along Holt Avenue within the project
study area. Holt Avenue is posted for a 35 miles per hour speed limit in the project vicinity.

4.5        Public Transit Services
Public transit service within the Holt Family Apartments project study area is currently provided
by Foothill Transit and Metrolink. A summary of the existing transit service, including the
transit route, destinations and peak hour headways is presented in Table 4­1. The existing
public transit routes in the Holt Family Apartments project site vicinity are illustrated in Figure
4­2.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                 LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                             Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                             O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                              - 12 -
                                                                                               Table 4-1
                                                                                     EXISTING TRANSIT ROUTES [1]

                                                                                                                                                    NO. OF BUSES/TRAINS
                                                                                                                    ROADWAY(S)                      DURING PEAK HOUR
                         ROUTE                                     DESTINATIONS                                      NEAR SITE                    DIR       AM        PM


                Foothill Transit 482            Pomona TransCenter to Puente Hills Mall via Cal Poly,   Holt Avenue, Hamilton Boulevard, Dudley   EB         2             2
                                                Diamond Bar, Rowland Heights                            Street                                    WB         2             2


                Riverside Line                  Riverside-Downtown to Los Angeles Union Station         Downtown Pomona 101 W. First Street       EB         0             1
                                                                                                                                                  WB         1             0
                                                                                                                                                  Total      5             5


              [1] Source: Foothill Transit and Metrolink websites, 2013.




- 13 -
         LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                                                                                      LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                                                                                           Holt Family Apartments Project
- 14 -
5.0        TRAFFIC COUNTS
New manual counts of vehicular turning movements were conducted at each of the study
intersections during the weekday morning (AM) and afternoon (PM) commuter periods to
determine the peak hour traffic volumes. The manual counts were conducted by a traffic count
subconsultant, Accutek Traffic Data, at the study intersections from 6:30 to 9:00 AM to
determine the AM peak commuter hour, and from 4:00 to 6:00 PM to determine the PM peak
commuter hour. In conjunction with the manual turning movement vehicle counts, a count of
bicycle and pedestrian volumes were collected during the peak periods. The traffic counts were
conducted when local schools were in session. Traffic volumes at the study intersections show
the morning and afternoon peak periods typically associated with peak commuter hours in the
metropolitan area.

The existing weekday AM and PM peak commuter period manual counts of turning vehicles at
the study intersections are summarized in Table 5-1. The existing traffic volumes at the study
intersections during the weekday AM and PM peak commuter hours are shown in Figure 5-1,
respectively. Summary data worksheets of the manual traffic counts of the study intersections
are contained in Appendix A.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                             LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                         Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                         O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                            - 15 -
                                                              Table 5-1
                                                    EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES [1]


                                                                            AM PEAK HOUR      PM PEAK HOUR
       NO.             INTERSECTION                   DATE        DIR     BEGAN    VOLUME   BEGAN    VOLUME

        1         Dudley Street/                    03/19/2013    NB       7:15        0     4:45               0
                  Holt Avenue                                     SB                 167                      166
                                                                  EB                 367                    1,166
                                                                  WB                 745                      651

        2         Hamilton Boulevard/               03/19/2013    NB       7:15      258     4:00             283
                  Holt Avenue                                     SB                 149                      205
                                                                  EB                 372                    1,153
                                                                  WB                 642                      667

            [1]   Counts conducted by Accutek Traffic Data




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                                   LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                               Holt Family Apartments Project


                                                                 - 16 -
- 17 -
6.0        CUMULATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
The forecast of future pre-project conditions was prepared in accordance to procedures outlined
in Section 15130 of the CEQA Guidelines. Specifically, the CEQA Guidelines provide two
options for developing the future traffic volume forecast:

           "(A) A list of past, present, and probable future projects producing related or
           cumulative impacts, including, if necessary, those projects outside the control of
           the [lead] agency, or

           (B) A summary of projections contained in an adopted local, regional or statewide
           plan, or related planning document, that describes or evaluates conditions
           contributing to the cumulative effect. Such plans may include: a general plan,
           regional transportation plan, or plans for the reduction of greenhouse gas
           emissions. A summary of projections may also be contained in an adopted or
           certified prior environmental document for such a plan. Such projections may be
           supplemented with additional information such as a regional modeling program.
           Any such document shall be referenced and made available to the public at a
           location specified by the lead agency."

Based on consultation with PPWD staff, the traffic analysis utilizes option "B" for purposes of
developing the future without project traffic volumes as outlined in the CEQA Guidelines.

6.1        Ambient Traffic Growth Factor
The existing traffic volumes were increased at an annual rate of 2.0 percent (2.0%) per year to
the year 2014 (i.e., the anticipated year of project build-out). The ambient growth factor was
determined in consultation with PPWD staff. It is noted that based on general traffic growth
factors provided in the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County (the
"CMP manual") for the Pomona area (RSA No. 27), it is anticipated that the existing traffic
volumes are expected to increase at an annual rate of less than 2.0% per year between the years
2010 and 2015 (i.e., approximately 1.62%). Thus, application of the 2.0% annual growth factor
allows for a conservative forecast of future traffic volumes in the area. Further, it is noted that
the CMP manual's traffic growth rate is intended to anticipate future traffic generated by
development projects in the project vicinity.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                   LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                               Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                               O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                 - 18 -
7.0        TRAFFIC FORECASTING METHODOLOGY
In order to estimate the traffic impact characteristics of the Holt Family Apartments project, a
multi-step process has been utilized. The first step is trip generation, which estimates the total
arriving and departing traffic volumes on a peak hour and daily basis. The traffic generation
potential is forecast by applying the appropriate vehicle trip generation equations or rates to the
project development tabulation.

The second step of the forecasting process is trip distribution, which identifies the origins and
destinations of inbound and outbound project traffic volumes. These origins and destinations are
typically based on demographics and existing/anticipated travel patterns in the study area.

The third step is traffic assignment, which involves the allocation of project traffic to study area
streets and intersections. Traffic assignment is typically based on minimization of travel time,
which may or may not involve the shortest route, depending on prevailing operating conditions
and travel speeds. Traffic distribution patterns are indicated by general percentage orientation,
while traffic assignment allocates specific volume forecasts to individual roadway links and
intersection turning movements throughout the study area.

With the forecasting process complete and project traffic assignments developed, the impact of
the proposed project is isolated by comparing operational (i.e., Levels of Service) conditions at
the selected key intersections using existing and expected future traffic volumes without and
with forecast project traffic. The need for site-specific and/or cumulative local area traffic
improvements can then be evaluated and the significance of the project's impacts identified.

7.1        Project Traffic Generation
Traffic volumes expected to be generated by the proposed Holt Family Apartments project
during the weekday AM and PM peak hours, as well as on a daily basis, were estimated using
rates published in the ITE Trip Generation manual. Traffic volumes expected to be generated by
the proposed project were based upon rates per number of dwelling units. ITE Land Use Code
220 (Apartment) trip generation average rates were used to forecast the traffic volumes expected
to be generated by the proposed project.

It is noted that there is an existing active land use on the project site (i.e., the trailer home park).
However, as the number of occupied units was indeterminate at this time and the units are
anticipated to be relocated, it was determined in consultation with PPWD staff to not employ an
existing use trip credit in the project trip generation forecasts. Further, this approach allows for a
conservative, worst case forecast of project-related trips.

The trip generation forecast for the proposed project is summarized in Table 7-1. The trip
generation forecast for the proposed project was submitted for review and approval by PPWD
staff. As presented in Table 7-1, the proposed project is expected to generate 32 vehicle trips (6
inbound trips and 26 outbound trips) during the weekday AM peak hour. During the weekday
PM peak hour, the proposed project is expected to generate 38 vehicle trips (25 inbound trips and


LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                     LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                 Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                 O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                 - 19 -
                                                             Table 7-1
                                                    PROJECT TRIP GENERATION [1]


                                                           DAILY                AM PEAK HOUR            PM PEAK HOUR
                                                      TRIP ENDS [2]                 VOLUMES [2]             VOLUMES [2]
                LAND USE                   SIZE         VOLUMES                IN      OUT   TOTAL     IN       OUT       TOTAL



           Apartment [3]                   62 DU                412             6       26        32   25         13         38



      TOTAL                                                     412             6       26        32   25         13         38


        [1] Source: ITE "Trip Generation", 9th Edition, 2012.
        [2] Trips are one-way traffic movements, entering or leaving.
        [3] ITE Land Use Code 220 (Apartment) trip generation average rates.
           - Daily Trip Rate: 6.65 trips/dwelling unit; 50% inbound/50% outbound
           - AM Peak Hour Trip Rate: 0.51 trips/dwelling units; 20% inbound/80% outbound
           - PM Peak Hour Trip Rate: 0.62 trips/dwelling units; 65% inbound/35% outbound




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                                                 LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                                             Holt Family Apartments Project


                                                                      - 20 -
13 outbound trips). Over a weekday 24-hour period, the proposed project is forecast to generate
412 daily trip ends (206 inbound trips and 206 outbound trips) during a typical weekday.

7.2        Project Traffic Distribution and Assignment
Project traffic volumes both entering and exiting the site have been distributed and assigned to
the adjacent street system based on the following considerations:

      ·    The site's proximity to major traffic corridors (i.e., Holt Avenue, Dudley Street, Hamilton
           Boulevard, White Avenue, etc.);

      ·    Expected localized traffic flow patterns based on adjacent roadway channelization and
           presence of traffic signals;

      ·    Existing intersection traffic volumes;

      ·    Ingress/egress availability at the project site assuming the site access and circulation
           scheme described in Section 3.0;

      ·    Nearby population and employment centers as well as adjacent residential
           neighborhoods; and

      ·    Input from PPWD staff.

The general, directional traffic distribution patterns for the proposed project are presented in
Figure 7-1. The forecast weekday AM and PM peak hour project traffic volumes at the study
intersections associated with the proposed project are presented in Figure 7-2. The traffic
volume assignments presented in Figure 7-2 reflect the traffic distribution characteristics shown
in Figure 7-1 and the project traffic generation forecast presented in Table 7-1.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                    LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                    - 21 -
- 22 -
- 23 -
8.0        TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY
The study intersections were evaluated using the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) method of
analysis which determines vehicular delays at intersections. The overall intersection control
delay is subsequently assigned a Level of Service (LOS) value to describe intersection
operations.

Levels of Service for signalized intersections is defined in terms of delay, which is a measure of
driver discomfort, frustration, fuel consumption, and lost travel time. The delay experienced by a
motorist is made up of a number of factors that relate to control, geometrics, traffic, and
incidents. Total delay is the difference between the travel time actually experienced and the
reference travel time that would result during ideal conditions: in the absence of traffic control,
in the absence of geometric delay, in the absence of incidents, and when there are no other
vehicles on the road. Only the portion of total delay attributed to the control facility is
quantified. This delay is called control delay. Control delay includes initial deceleration delay,
queue move-up time, stopped delay, and final acceleration delay. Control delay may also be
referred to as signal delay. Level of Service criteria for traffic signals are stated in terms of the
average control delay per vehicle. Delay is a complex measure and is dependent on a number of
variables, including the quality of progression, the cycle length, the green ratio, and the V/C ratio
for the lane group in question. A description of the HCM signalized method and corresponding
Levels of Service is provided in Appendix B.

8.1        Impact Criteria and Thresholds
The relative impact of the added project traffic volumes to be generated by the proposed project
during the weekday AM and PM peak hours was evaluated based on analysis of future operating
conditions at the study intersections, without and with the proposed project. The previously
discussed capacity analysis procedures were utilized to evaluate the future v/c relationships and
service level characteristics at each study intersection.

The significance of the potential impacts of project-generated traffic was identified using the
traffic impact criteria set forth in the City of Pomona Public Works Department Traffic Impact
Study Guidelines, February, 2012. According to the City's published traffic study guidelines, the
impact is considered significant if the project-related increase in the v/c ratio equals or exceeds
the thresholds presented in Table 8­1.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                  LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                              Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                              O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                               - 24 -
                                                       Table 8-1
                                                   CITY OF POMONA
                                       INTERSECTION IMPACT THRESHOLD CRITERIA
                                                Signalized Intersections
Any study intersection that is operating at LOS `A', `B', `C' or `D' for any study scenario without
project traffic in which the addition of project traffic causes the intersection to degrade to a LOS `E' or
`F' shall mitigate that impact so as to bring the intersection back to at least LOS `D'.
Any study intersection that is operating at LOS `E' or `F' for any study scenario without project traffic
shall mitigate any impacts so as to bring the intersection back to the overall level of delay established
prior to project traffic being added.


                                              Unsignalized Intersections
An impact is considered significant if the study determines that either section a) or both sections b) and
c) occur:
      a) The addition of project related traffic causes the intersection to move from a LOS `D' or better
         to a LOS `E' or worse
OR
      b) The project contributes additional traffic to an intersection that is already projected to operated
         at LOS `E' or `F' with background traffic (per Section 3.2 b))
            AND
      c) One or both of the following conditions are met:
            1) The project adds ten (10) or more trips to any approach
            2) The intersection meets the peak hour traffic signal warrant after the addition of project
               traffic (per Section 3.2 c)).




The City's threshold criteria requires mitigation of project traffic impacts whenever traffic
generated by the proposed development causes an increase of the analyzed intersection v/c ratio
and/or delay by an amount equal to or greater than the values shown above.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                           LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                       Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                       O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                         - 25 -
8.2        Traffic Impact Analysis Scenarios
Pursuant to the City's traffic study guidelines, Level of Service calculations have been prepared
for the following scenarios for the study intersections:

           (a)        Existing (2013) conditions.
           (b)        Condition (a) with completion and occupancy of the project.
           (c)        Condition (b) with implementation of project mitigation measures where
                      necessary.
           (d)        Condition (a) plus two percent (2.0%) annual ambient traffic growth through year
                      2014 (i.e., future without project conditions)
           (e)        Condition (d) with completion and occupancy of the project.
           (f)        Condition (e) with implementation of project mitigation measures where
                      necessary.

The traffic volumes for each new condition were added to the volumes in the prior condition to
determine the change in capacity utilization at the study intersections.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                        LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                    Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                    O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                      - 26 -
9.0        TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
The traffic impact analysis prepared for the study intersections using the HCM methodology and
application of the City of Pomona significant traffic impact criteria is summarized in Table 9­1.
The HCM data worksheets for the analyzed intersections are contained in Appendix B.

9.1        Existing Conditions
9.1.1 Existing Conditions
As indicated in column [1] of Table 9­1, both study intersections are presently operating at LOS
B or better during the weekday AM and PM peak hours under existing conditions. The existing
traffic volumes at the study intersections during the weekday AM and PM peak hours are
displayed in Figure 5­1.

9.1.2 Existing With Project Conditions
As shown in column [2] of Table 9­1, application of the City's threshold criteria to the "Existing
With Project" scenario indicates that the proposed project is not expected to create significant
impacts at either of the study intersections. Incremental, but not significant, impacts are noted at
the study intersections. Because there are no significant impacts, no traffic mitigation measures
are required or recommended for the study intersections under the "Existing With Project"
conditions. The existing with project traffic volumes at the study intersections during the
weekday AM and PM peak hours are illustrated in Figure 9­1.

9.2        Future Conditions
9.2.1 Future Without Project Conditions
The future without project conditions were forecast based on the addition of traffic generated by
the growth in traffic due to the combined effects of continuing development, intensification of
existing developments and other factors (i.e., ambient growth). The delay at the study
intersections is incrementally increased with the addition of ambient traffic growth. As
presented in column [3] of Table 9­1, both study intersections are expected to continue operating
at LOS B or better during the weekday AM and PM peak hours with the addition of growth in
ambient traffic under the future without project conditions. The future without project (existing
and ambient growth) traffic volumes at the study intersections during the weekday AM and PM
peak hours are presented in Figure 9­2.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                  LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                              Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                             O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                               - 27 -
                                                                                                            Table 9-1
                                                                                              SUMMARY OF VOLUME TO CAPACITY RATIOS
                                                                                                     AND LEVELS OF SERVICE
                                                                                                 WEEKDAY AM AND PM PEAK HOURS

                                                                                 [1]                                     [2]                                 [3]                                         [4]
                                                                                                     YEAR 2013                                            YEAR 2014                  YEAR 2014
                                                                                                     EXISTING                                              FUTURE                     FUTURE
                                                                           YEAR 2013                   WITH                           SIGNIF.             WITHOUT                      WITH                              SIGNIF.
                                                             PEAK          EXISTING                  PROJECT               CHANGE IMPACT                  PROJECT                    PROJECT                CHANGE       IMPACT
               NO. SECTION                                   HOUR       DELAY      LOS            DELAY      LOS            [(2)-(1)]   [a]            DELAY      LOS             DELAY      LOS             [(4)-(3)]     [a]

                1      Dudley Street/                         AM               7.9        A              7.9        A          0.0          NO                7.9        A                7.9        A          0.0        NO
                       Holt Avenue                            PM               5.6        A              5.7        A          0.1          NO                5.7        A                5.8        A          0.1        NO


                2      Hamilton Boulevard/                    AM              15.7        B             15.7        B          0.0          NO               17.1        B              17.1         B          0.0        NO
                       Holt Avenue                            PM              13.9        B             14.0        B          0.1          NO               14.0        B              14.1         B          0.1        NO


                 [a]   According to the City of Pomona threshold of significance, a transportation impact at a signalized intersection shall be deemed significant in accordance with the following:
                       - Any study intersection that is operating at a LOS `A', `B', `C' or `D' for any study scenario without project traffic in which the addition of project traffic causes the intersection to
                       degrade to a LOS `E' or `F' shall mitigate that impact so as to bring the intersection back to at least LOS `D'.
                       - Any study intersection that is operating at a LOS `E' or `F' for any study scenario without project traffic shall mitigate any impacts so as to bring the intersection back to the overall




- 28 -
                       level of delay established prior to project traffic being added.




         LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                                                                                                                                     LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Holt Family Apartments Project
- 29 -
- 30 -
9.2.2 Future With Project Conditions
As shown in column [4] of Table 9­1, application of the City's threshold criteria to the "With
Proposed Project" scenario indicates that the proposed project is not expected to create
significant impacts at either of the study intersections. Incremental, but not significant, impacts
are noted at the study intersections and both study intersections are expected to continue
operating at LOS B or better during the weekday AM and PM peak hours with the addition of
growth in ambient traffic and project traffic, as presented in Table 9­1. The future cumulative
with project (existing, ambient growth, and project) traffic volumes at the study intersections
during the weekday AM and PM peak hours are illustrated in Figure 9­3.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                 LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                             Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                             O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                              - 31 -
- 32 -
10.0 CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROGRAM TRAFFIC IMPACT ASSESSMENT
The Congestion Management Program (CMP) is a state-mandated program that was enacted by
the California State Legislature with the passage of Proposition 111 in 1990. The program is
intended to address the impact of local growth on the regional transportation system.

As required by the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County, a Traffic
Impact Assessment (TIA) has been prepared to determine the potential impacts on designated
monitoring locations on the CMP highway system. The analysis has been prepared in
accordance with procedures outlined in the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los
Angeles County, County of Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority, 2010.

According to Section D.9.1 (Appendix D, page D-6) of the 2010 CMP manual, the criteria for
determining a significant transportation impact is listed below:

           "A significant transportation impact occurs when the proposed project increases
           traffic demand on a CMP facility by 2% of capacity (V/C > 0.02), causing or
           worsening LOS F (V/C > 1.00)."

The CMP impact criteria apply for analysis of both intersection and freeway monitoring
locations.

10.1       Intersections
The following CMP intersection monitoring locations in the project vicinity have been identified:

     ·     CMP Station                 Intersection

           No. 124                     Arrow Highway/Garey Avenue

           No. 125                     Corona Expressway/Garey Avenue

           No. 126                     Corona Expressway/Mission Boulevard

The CMP TIA guidelines require that intersection monitoring locations must be examined if the
proposed project will add 50 or more trips during either the AM or PM weekday peak hours.
The proposed project will not add 50 or more trips during either the AM or PM weekday peak
hours (i.e., of adjacent street traffic) at the CMP monitoring intersections in the project vicinity,
which is stated in the CMP manual as the threshold criteria for a traffic impact assessment.
Therefore, no further review of potential impacts to intersection monitoring locations that are
part of the CMP highway system is required.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                  LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                              Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                              O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                      - 33 -
10.2       Freeways
The following CMP freeway monitoring location has been identified in the project vicinity:

     ·     CMP Station                 Location

           No. 1020                    I-10 Freeway at Dudley Street

The CMP TIA guidelines require that freeway monitoring locations must be examined if the
proposed project will add 150 or more trips (in either direction) during either the AM or PM
weekday peak periods. The proposed project will not add 150 or more trips (in either direction)
during either the AM or PM weekday peak hours to CMP freeway monitoring locations which is
the threshold for preparing a traffic impact assessment, as stated in the CMP manual. Therefore,
no further review of potential impacts to freeway monitoring locations that are part of the CMP
highway system is required.

10.3       Transit Impact Review
As required by the 2010 Congestion Management Program for Los Angeles County, a review has
been made of the potential impacts of the project on transit service. As discussed in Subsection
4.5 herein, existing transit service is provided in the vicinity of the proposed Holt Family
Apartments project.

The project trip generation, as shown in Table 7­1, was adjusted by values set forth in the CMP
(i.e., person trips equal 1.4 times vehicle trips, and transit trips equal 3.5 percent of the total
person trips) to estimate transit trip generation. Pursuant to the CMP guidelines, the proposed
project is forecast to generate demand for 2 transit trips during the weekday AM peak hour and 2
transit trips during the weekday PM peak hour. Over a 24-hour period, the proposed project is
forecast to generate demand for 20 daily transit trips. Therefore, the calculations are as follows:

     ·     AM Peak Hour = 32 × 1.4 × 0.035 = 2 Transit Trips

     ·     PM Peak Hour = 38 × 1.4 × 0.035 = 2 Transit Trips

     ·     Daily Trips = 412 × 1.4 × 0.035 = 20 Transit Trips

As shown in Table 4­1, two transit lines and routes are provided adjacent to or in close
proximity the project site. As outlined in Table 4­1, under the "No. of Buses/Trains During
Peak Hour" column, these two transit lines provide services for an average of (i.e., average of the
directional number of buses/trains during the peak hours) generally two buses/trains during the
weekday AM peak hour and roughly two buses/trains during the weekday PM peak hour.
Therefore, based on the above calculated weekday AM and PM peak hour trips, this would
correspond to no more than one additional transit rider per bus/train. It is anticipated that the
existing transit service in the project area will adequately accommodate the increase of project-
generated transit trips. Thus, given the low number of project-generated transit trips per


LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                 LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                             Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                             O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                                      - 34 -
bus/train, no project impacts on existing or future transit services in the project area are expected
to occur as a result of the proposed project.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                  LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                              Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                              O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                               - 35 -
11.0 CONCLUSIONS
This traffic impact analysis has been prepared to evaluate the potential impacts to the local street
system due to the Holt Family Apartments project. Two intersections were identified and
analyzed in order to determine changes in operations following construction and occupancy of
the proposed project. Application of the impact threshold criteria from the City of Pomona
indicates that none of the study intersections would be significantly impacted by the forecast
project traffic. Incremental but not significant impacts are noted at the study intersections
evaluated in this analysis. As no significant impacts are expected due to the proposed project, no
traffic mitigation measures are required or recommended for the study intersections.




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                  LLG Ref. 1-13-4013-1
                                                                              Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                             O:\JOB_FILE\4013\Report\4013-Rpt1.doc


                                               - 36 -
                                                         APPENDIX A
                                       MANUAL TRAFFIC COUNT DATA




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                      LLG Ref. 1-13-4013
                                                Holt Family Apartments Project
                                                                                                  Accutek Traffic Data
                                                                                                   21114 Trigger Lane
                                                                                                 Diamond Bar, CA 91765
                                                                                                     (909) 595-6199                                                                          File Name                 : 376601
                                                                                                                                                                                             Site Code                 : 00376601
                                                                                                                                                                                             Start Date                : 3/19/2013
                                                                                                                                                                                             Page No                   :1


                                                                                                  Groups Printed- TMC
                               DUDLEY ST.                                     HOLT AVE.                               DRIVEWAY                                      HOLT AVE.
                               Southbound                                     Westbound                               Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time     Right   Thru    Left Peds Bikes   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds Bikes   App. Total Right Thru Left Peds Bikes   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds Bikes   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       34       0       8    7     2        42          8    147      0    0     0       155        0     0    0   1     0           0        0     52     12    3     0        64             13        261             274
  07:15 AM       18       0      11    1     1        29          7    172      0    0     1       179        0     0    0   0     0           0        0     52      9    3     0        61              6        269             275
  07:30 AM       38       0      14    3     2        52          9    199      0    0     0       208        0     0    0   3     0           0        0     82      4    1     0        86              9        346             355
  07:45 AM       38       0      14    5     2        52         13    208      0    0     0       221        0     0    0   0     2           0        0    106     10    2     0       116             11        389             400
       Total    128       0      47 16       7       175         37    726      0    0     1       763        0     0    0   4     2           0        0    292     35    9     0       327             39       1265            1304

  08:00 AM        24      0      10    1     0        34          4    133      0    0     0      137     0      0     0    0      3           0        0     93     11    0     0       104              4        275             279
  08:15 AM        18      0      14    3     1        32          5    123      0    0     0      128     0      0     0    1      0           0        0     97     10    1     0       107              6        267             273
  08:30 AM        24      0       9    0     4        33          5    121      0    0     0      126     0      0     0    0      1           0        0     96      6    0     0       102              5        261             266
  08:45 AM        16      0      10    6     5        26         11    102      0    0     0      113     0      0     0    2      0           0        0    114     11    1     1       125             15        264             279
      Total       82      0      43   10    10       125         25    479      0    0     0      504     0      0     0    3      4           0        0    400     38    2     1       438             30       1067            1097

*** BREAK ***

  04:00 PM        24      0      23    4     7        47         17    150      0    0     0      167     0      0     0    3      3           0        0 250        27    5     0      277              22        491             513
  04:15 PM        23      2      19    8     2        44         20    118      0    0     0      138     0      0     0    0      2           0        5 228        23    3     0      256              15        438             453
  04:30 PM        17      2      28   11     0        47         20    123      0    0     0      143     0      0     0    2      0           0        3 263        38    1     0      304              14        494             508
  04:45 PM        17      0      24    6     3        41         18    160      0    0     0      178     0      0     0    3      2           0        3 272        23   11     0      298              25        517             542
      Total       81      4      94   29    12       179         75    551      0    0     0      626     0      0     0    8      7           0       11 1013      111   20     0     1135              76       1940            2016

  05:00 PM        17      1      28    6     1        46         21    127      0    0     0      148     0      0     0    4      2           0        3    204     36    5     1      243            19          437             456
  05:15 PM        13      0      21    7     4        34         22    134      0    0     0      156     0      0     0    0      3           0        0    272     27    1     1      299            16          489             505
  05:30 PM        12      1      32   25     5        45         23    146      0    0     0      169     0      0     0    4      3           0        2    297     35    4     0      334            41          548             589
  05:45 PM        23      0      23    7     7        46         17    123      1    0     0      141     0      0     0    4      1           0        5    223     30    5     0      258            24          445             469
      Total       65      2     104   45    17       171         83    530      1    0     0      614     0      0     0   12      9           0       10    996    128   15     2     1134           100         1919            2019

 Grand Total    356       6     288         46       650       220 2286         1    0     1    2507      0      0     0   27    22            0       21 2701      312   46     3     3034           245         6191            6436
                                      100
  Apprch % 54.8          0.9 44.3                               8.8 91.2        0                         0      0     0                              0.7   89 10.3
    Total % 5.8          0.1  4.7                   10.5        3.6 36.9        0                40.5     0      0     0                       0      0.3 43.6    5                        49           3.8         96.2
                                                                                Accutek Traffic Data
                                                                               21114 Trigger Lane
                                                                             Diamond Bar, CA 91765
                                                                                 (909) 595-6199                                               File Name     : 376601
                                                                                                                                              Site Code     : 00376601
                                                                                                                                              Start Date    : 3/19/2013
                                                                                                                                              Page No       :2

                               DUDLEY ST.                           HOLT AVE.                          DRIVEWAY                      HOLT AVE.
                               Southbound                           Westbound                          Northbound                    Eastbound
                                                     App.                              App.                          App.                           App.
       Start Time    Right     Thru      Left              Right    Thru   Left                Right   Thru   Left           Right   Thru   Left              Int. Total
                                                     Total                             Total                         Total                          Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
       07:15 AM          18         0       11          29     7     172      0         179        0      0      0      0        0     52      9      61           269
       07:30 AM          38         0       14          52     9     199      0         208        0      0      0      0        0     82      4      86           346
       07:45 AM          38         0       14          52    13     208      0         221        0      0      0      0        0    106     10     116           389
       08:00 AM          24         0       10          34     4     133      0         137        0      0      0      0        0     93     11     104           275
    Total Volume        118         0       49         167    33     712      0         745        0      0      0      0        0    333     34     367          1279
     % App. Total      70.7         0     29.3               4.4    95.6      0                    0      0      0               0   90.7    9.3
             PHF       .776      .000     .875        .803  .635    .856   .000        .843     .000   .000   .000   .000     .000   .785   .773     .791          .822

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
        04:45 PM           17          0       24      41     18     160      0         178        0      0      0      0       3    272     23      298           517
        05:00 PM           17          1       28      46     21     127      0         148        0      0      0      0        3   204     36      243           437
        05:15 PM           13          0       21      34     22     134      0         156        0      0      0      0        0   272      27     299           489
        05:30 PM           12          1       32      45     23     146      0         169        0      0      0      0        2    297     35      334           548
     Total Volume          59          2      105     166      84    567      0         651        0      0      0      0        8   1045    121     1174         1991
     % App. Total        35.5        1.2     63.3            12.9   87.1      0                    0      0      0             0.7     89   10.3
              PHF        .868      .500      .820    .902    .913   .886   .000        .914     .000   .000   .000   .000     .667   .880   .840     .879          .908
                                                                                               Accutek Traffic Data
                                                                                                21114 Trigger Lane
                                                                                              Diamond Bar, CA 91765
                                                                                                  (909) 595-6199                                                                          File Name                 : 376602
                                                                                                                                                                                          Site Code                 : 00376602
                                                                                                                                                                                          Start Date                : 3/19/2013
                                                                                                                                                                                          Page No                   :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- TMC
                          HAMILTON BLVD.                                   HOLT AVE.                            HAMILTON BLVD.                                   HOLT AVE.
                            Southbound                                     Westbound                               Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time     Right   Thru Left Peds Bikes   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds Bikes   App. Total Right Thru Left Peds Bikes   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds Bikes   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM         4     13    9    0     1        26          3    115      1    0     0       119       10   15   21    4     1        46          4     48      1    1     2        53              9        244             253
  07:15 AM         7     11    4    0     2        22         10    135      5    2     1       150       11   19   26    2     0        56         11     50      4    2     2        65             11        293             304
  07:30 AM         8     28   12    2     0        48          5    165      4    1     1       174       11   24   38    5     2        73         13     65      3    2     2        81             15        376             391
  07:45 AM        11     17    9    1     1        37          6    180     10    3     1       196       11   20   41    3     1        72         19    104      6    3     0       129             13        434             447
       Total      30     69   34    3     4       133         24    595     20    6     3       639       43   78 126 14        4       247         47    267     14    8     6       328             48       1347            1395

  08:00 AM         8     26     8   2     0        42          4    113      5    1     1      122     8    17     32    1     2         57         16     75      6    0     1        97              8        318             326
  08:15 AM         1     22    10   6     1        33          3    111      6    2     0      120    12    11     22    2     1         45          8     85      2    4     0        95             16        293             309
  08:30 AM         8     18     9   1     0        35          3    100      4    2     0      107     7    19     15    4     2         41          9     97      5    0     0       111              9        294             303
  08:45 AM         0     15     8   0     4        23          5     85      6    1     0       96    12    18     12    2     5         42         16     92      2    1     2       110             15        271             286
      Total       17     81    35   9     5       133         15    409     21    6     1      445    39    65     81    9    10        185         49    349     15    5     3       413             48       1176            1224

*** BREAK ***

  04:00 PM         7     38    20    3    3        65         12    134      8    3     1      154    13    22    31     4      3        66        49     236      7     2    0      292              19        577             596
  04:15 PM         9     28    12    6    1        49          7    166     12    3     4      185    16    41    20     0      1        77        49     208      5     8    2      262              25        573             598
  04:30 PM         4     30    12    7    2        46          8    143      7    0     1      158     8    38    28     2      2        74        56     237      7     3    1      300              18        578             596
  04:45 PM         4     30    11    3    3        45          8    157      5    1     2      170    10    20    36     1      0        66        45     246      8     9    1      299              20        580             600
      Total       24    126    55   19    9       205         35    600     32    7     8      667    47   121   115     7      6       283       199     927     27    22    4     1153              82       2308            2390

  05:00 PM         8     26     8    4    0        42         14    135      7    2     2      156    13    19    23     2      4        55        39     190     14     4    3      243              21        496             517
  05:15 PM         8     28    12   10    5        48         11    135      7    2     0      153    10    40    29     4      2        79        51     228      7     5    2      286              30        566             596
  05:30 PM         5     36     6    6    3        47         17    152      5    2     1      174     8    37    30     5      0        75        48     273      8     5    4      329              26        625             651
  05:45 PM         2     45     9    2    6        56         15    132     14    0     0      161    18    29    24     5      2        71        43     229     10     2    1      282              18        570             588
      Total       23    135    35   22   14       193         57    554     33    6     3      644    49   125   106    16      8       280       181     920     39    16   10     1140              95       2257            2352

 Grand Total 94 411 159             53   32       664       131 2158       106   25    15    2395   178 389      428    46    28        995   476 2463             95   51   23     3034           273         7088            7361
  Apprch % 14.2 61.9 23.9                                   5.5 90.1       4.4                     17.9 39.1      43                         15.7 81.2            3.1
    Total % 1.3  5.8  2.2                          9.4      1.8 30.4       1.5                33.8  2.5 5.5        6                      14 6.7 34.7             1.3                42.8            3.7         96.3
                                                                                Accutek Traffic Data
                                                                               21114 Trigger Lane
                                                                             Diamond Bar, CA 91765
                                                                                 (909) 595-6199                                                  File Name      : 376602
                                                                                                                                                 Site Code      : 00376602
                                                                                                                                                 Start Date     : 3/19/2013
                                                                                                                                                 Page No        :2

                             HAMILTON BLVD.                         HOLT AVE.                          HAMILTON BLVD.                   HOLT AVE.
                               Southbound                           Westbound                            Northbound                     Eastbound
                                                     App.                              App.                             App.                            App.
       Start Time    Right     Thru      Left              Right    Thru   Left                Right     Thru   Left            Right   Thru   Left               Int. Total
                                                     Total                             Total                            Total                           Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
       07:15 AM            7       11        4          22    10     135      5         150       11       19     26      56       11     50      4       65           293
       07:30 AM            8       28       12          48     5     165      4         174       11       24     38      73       13     65      3       81           376
       07:45 AM          11        17        9          37     6     180     10         196       11       20     41      72       19    104      6      129           434
       08:00 AM            8       26        8          42     4     113      5         122        8       17     32      57       16     75      6       97           318
    Total Volume         34        82       33         149    25     593     24         642       41       80    137     258       59    294     19      372          1421
     % App. Total      22.8        55     22.1               3.9    92.4    3.7                 15.9       31   53.1             15.9     79    5.1
             PHF       .773      .732     .688        .776  .625    .824   .600        .819     .932     .833   .835    .884     .776   .707   .792     .721           .819

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
        04:00 PM            7        38        20      65     12    134         8       154       13      22     31       66      49    236         7    292           577
        04:15 PM            9        28        12      49       7    166    12          185       16       41    20       77      49    208         5    262           573
        04:30 PM            4        30        12      46       8    143      7         158        8       38    28       74      56    237         7    300           578
        04:45 PM            4        30        11      45       8    157      5         170       10       20    36       66       45    246        8    299            580
     Total Volume          24       126        55     205      35    600     32         667       47      121    115     283      199    927     27     1153          2308
     % App. Total        11.7      61.5      26.8             5.2     90    4.8                 16.6     42.8   40.6             17.3   80.4    2.3
              PHF        .667      .829      .688    .788    .729   .904   .667        .901     .734     .738   .799    .919     .888   .942   .844     .961           .995
                                                                                    APPENDIX B
                                                       HCS AND LEVELS OF SERVICE EXPANATION
                                       HSC DATA WORKSHEETS ­ WEEKDAY AM AND PM PEAK HOURS




LINSCOTT, LAW & GREENSPAN, engineers                                                 LLG Ref. 1-13-4013
                                                                           Holt Family Apartments Project
                                LEVEL OF SERVICE FOR SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS

In the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM), published by the Transportation Research Board, 2000, level of service for signalized
intersections is defined in terms of delay, which is a measure of driver discomfort, frustration, fuel consumption, and increased
travel time. The delay experienced by a motorist is made up of a number of factors that relate to control, geometrics, traffic, and
incidents. Total delay is the difference between the travel time actually experienced and the reference travel time that would
result during base conditions: in the absence of traffic control, in the absence of geometric delay, in the absence of incidents, and
when there are no other vehicles on the road. Only the portion of total delay attributed to the control facility is quantified. This
delay is called control delay. Control delay includes initial deceleration delay, queue move-up time, stopped delay, and final
acceleration delay.

Level of Service criteria for traffic signals are stated in terms of the average control delay per vehicle. Delay is a complex
measure and is dependent on a number of variables, including the quality of progression, the cycle length, the green ratio, and the
v/c ratio for the lane group in question.

                                       Level of Service Criteria for Signalized Intersections
                                       Level of Service                Control Delay (Sec/Veh)
                                               A                                  10
                                               B                             > 10 and  20
                                               C                             > 20 and  35
                                               D                             > 35 and  55
                                               E                             > 55 and  80
                                               F                                 > 80

Level of Service (LOS) values are used to describe intersection operations with service levels varying from LOS A (free flow) to
LOS F (jammed condition). The following descriptions summarize HCM criteria for each level of service:

LOS A describes operations with very low control delay, up to 10 seconds per vehicle. This level of service occurs when
progression is extremely favorable and most vehicles arrive during the green phase. Most vehicles do not stop at all. Short cycle
lengths may also contribute to low delay values.

LOS B describes operations with control delay greater than 10 and up to 20 seconds per vehicle. This level generally occurs with
good progression, short cycle lengths, or both. More vehicles stop than with LOS A, causing higher levels of delay.

LOS C describes operations with control delay greater than 20 and up to 35 seconds per vehicle. These higher delays may result
from fair progression, longer cycle lengths, or both. Individual cycle failures may begin to appear at this level. The number of
vehicles stopping is significant at this level, though many still pass through the intersection without stopping.

LOS D describes operations with control delay greater than 35 and up to 55 seconds per vehicle. At LOS D, the influence of
congestion becomes more noticeable. Longer delays may result from some combination of unfavorable progression, long cycle
lengths, or high v/c ratios. Many vehicles stop, and the proportion of vehicles not stopping declines. Individual cycle failures are
noticeable.

LOS E describes operations with control delay greater than 55 and up to 80 seconds per vehicle. This level is considered by
many agencies to be the limit of acceptable delay. These high delay values generally indicate poor progression, long cycle
lengths, and high v/c ratios. Individual cycle failures are frequent occurrences.

LOS F describes operations with control delay in excess of 80 seconds per vehicle. This level, considered to be unacceptable to
most drivers, often occurs with oversaturation, that is, when arrival flow rates exceed the capacity of the lane groups. It may also
occur at high v/c ratios with many individual cycle failures. Poor progression and long cycle lengths may also be major
contributing factors to such delay levels.
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                               Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                Intersection    Int-1
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                       Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/2/2013                                                           Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday AM Peak Hour                                               Analysis Year Existing 2013
                                                                                                   Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                   Project ID
                                                                                                   Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                          EB                        WB                          NB                      SB
                                                LT        TH       RT    LT         TH        RT        LT      TH      RT     LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1          2                          2         1                               2                     1
 Lane Group                                     L         T                          T        R                                L                    R
 Volume, V (vph)                                34        333                       712        33                              49                   118
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2          2                         2         2                               2                     2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00       1.00                      1.00      1.00                            1.00                  1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  P          P                         P         P                               P                     P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3          3                         3         3                               3                     3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0        3.0                       3.0       3.0                             3.0                   3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000      1.000                     1.000     1.000                           1.000                 1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0        0.0                       0.0       0.0                             0.0                   0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0      0   0                 0     0 0         0                               0           0         0
 Lane Width                                   12.0       12.0                      12.0      12.0                            12.0                  12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N N    N   0                 N     0 0     N   N                               N           0         N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0   0                     0     0                             0                                                 0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp           3.2                 3.2                  3.2                                                   3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02         03         04        SB Only        06             07                                             08
                G = 64.3       G = 0.0   G = 0.0    G = 0.0      G = 12.7     G=            G=                                            G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y= 0      Y= 0       Y= 0         Y= 4         Y=            Y=                                            Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                               Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                  WB                  NB                                                        SB
                                  LT   TH     RT    LT     TH     RT      LT     TH      RT       LT                                      TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            34   333                 712    33                              49                                                118
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     471         2542                      2542     1135                               432                   224
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.07        0.13                   0.28       0.03                                0.11                  0.53
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.76        0.76                   0.76       0.76                                0.15                  0.15
 Uniform Delay, d1                         2.7          2.8                       3.2      2.6                               31.3                  33.4
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000                  1.000      1.000                               1.000                 1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.50        0.50                   0.50       0.50                                0.50                  0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.3         0.1                       0.3       0.0                               0.5                   8.6
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0                       0.0      0.0                               0.0                    0.0
 Control Delay                              3.0         2.9                       3.5       2.6                              31.8                   42.0
 Lane Group LOS                             A           A                         A         A                                 C                     D
 Approach Delay                                   2.9                      3.4                                                       39.0
 Approach LOS                                      A                          A                                                       D
 Intersection Delay                               7.9                   XC = 0.32                    Intersection LOS                 A
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                HCS+TM Version 5.4                Generated: 4/4/2013     4:18 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                               Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                Intersection    Int-1
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                       Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/2/2013                                                           Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday PM Peak Hour                                               Analysis Year Existing 2013
                                                                                                   Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                   Project ID
                                                                                                   Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                          EB                        WB                          NB                      SB
                                                LT        TH       RT    LT         TH        RT        LT      TH      RT     LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1          2                          2         1                               2                     1
 Lane Group                                     L         T                          T        R                                L                    R
 Volume, V (vph)                               121       1045                       567        84                             105                    59
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2          2                         2         2                               2                     2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00       1.00                      1.00      1.00                            1.00                  1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  P          P                         P         P                               P                     P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3          3                         3         3                               3                     3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0        3.0                       3.0       3.0                             3.0                   3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000      1.000                     1.000     1.000                           1.000                 1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0        0.0                       0.0       0.0                             0.0                   0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0      0   0                0     0  0         0                               0           0         0
 Lane Width                                   12.0       12.0                      12.0      12.0                            12.0                  12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N  N   N   0                N     0  0    N    N                               N           0         N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0    0                    0     0                            0                                                  0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp            3.2                3.2                 3.2                                                    3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02          03        04        SB Only       06             07                                              08
                G = 69.3       G = 0.0    G = 0.0   G = 0.0      G = 7.7     G=            G=                                             G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y= 0       Y= 0      Y= 0         Y= 4        Y=            Y=                                             Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                              Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                  WB                 NB                                                         SB
                                   LT   TH     RT   LT     TH     RT     LT     TH      RT       LT                                       TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            121  1045                567    84                            105                                                 59
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     598         2739                      2739     1223                               262                   136
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.20        0.38                   0.21       0.07                                0.40                  0.43
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.82        0.82                   0.82       0.82                                0.09                  0.09
 Uniform Delay, d1                         1.7          2.1                       1.7      1.5                               36.5                  36.6
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000                  1.000      1.000                               1.000                 1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.50        0.50                   0.50       0.50                                0.50                  0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.8         0.4                       0.2       0.1                               4.5                   9.8
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0                       0.0      0.0                               0.0                    0.0
 Control Delay                              2.5         2.5                       1.9       1.6                              41.0                   46.4
 Lane Group LOS                             A           A                         A         A                                 D                     D
 Approach Delay                                   2.5                      1.9                                                       42.9
 Approach LOS                                      A                          A                                                       D
 Intersection Delay                               5.6                   XC = 0.39                    Intersection LOS                 A
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                HCS+TM Version 5.4                Generated: 4/4/2013     4:21 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                               Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                Intersection    Int-1
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                       Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/2/2013                                                           Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday AM Peak Hour                                               Analysis Year Existing + Project
                                                                                                   Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                   Project ID
                                                                                                   Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                          EB                        WB                          NB                      SB
                                                LT        TH       RT    LT         TH        RT        LT      TH      RT     LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1          2                          2         1                               2                     1
 Lane Group                                     L         T                          T        R                                L                    R
 Volume, V (vph)                                34        335                       721        37                              50                   118
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2          2                         2         2                               2                     2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00       1.00                      1.00      1.00                            1.00                  1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  P          P                         P         P                               P                     P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3          3                         3         3                               3                     3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0        3.0                       3.0       3.0                             3.0                   3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000      1.000                     1.000     1.000                           1.000                 1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0        0.0                       0.0       0.0                             0.0                   0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0      0   0                 0      00         0                               0           0         0
 Lane Width                                   12.0       12.0                      12.0      12.0                            12.0                  12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N N    N   0                 N     0 0     N   N                               N           0         N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0   0                     0     0                             0                                                 0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp           3.2                 3.2                   3.2                                                  3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02         03         04        SB Only         06            07                                           08
                G = 63.3       G = 0.0   G = 0.0    G = 0.0      G = 13.7     G = 0.0       G = 0.0                                       G = 0.0
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y= 0      Y= 0       Y= 0         Y= 4         Y= 0          Y= 0                                          Y= 0
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                               Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                  WB                   NB                                                       SB
                                  LT   TH     RT    LT     TH     RT      LT     TH      RT       LT                                      TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            34   335                 721    37                              50                                               118
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     457         2502                      2502     1117                               466                  242
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.07        0.13                   0.29       0.03                                0.11                  0.49
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.74        0.74                   0.74       0.74                                0.16                  0.16
 Uniform Delay, d1                         2.9          3.1                       3.5      2.8                               30.4                  32.5
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000                  1.000      1.000                               1.000                 1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.50        0.50                   0.50       0.50                                0.50                  0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.3         0.1                       0.3       0.1                               0.5                   6.9
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0                       0.0      0.0                               0.0                   0.0
 Control Delay                              3.2         3.2                       3.8       2.9                              30.9                  39.3
 Lane Group LOS                             A           A                         A         A                                 C                     D
 Approach Delay                                   3.2                      3.8                                                       36.8
 Approach LOS                                      A                          A                                                       D
 Intersection Delay                               7.9                   XC = 0.32                    Intersection LOS                 A
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                HCS+TM Version 5.4                Generated: 4/4/2013    4:22 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                               Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                Intersection    Int-1
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                       Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/2/2013                                                           Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday PM Peak Hour                                               Analysis Year Existing + Project
                                                                                                   Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                   Project ID
                                                                                                   Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                          EB                        WB                          NB                      SB
                                                LT        TH       RT    LT         TH        RT        LT      TH      RT     LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1          2                          2         1                               2                     1
 Lane Group                                     L         T                          T        R                                L                    R
 Volume, V (vph)                               121       1054                       572        86                             109                    59
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2          2                         2         2                               2                     2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00       1.00                      1.00      1.00                            1.00                  1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  P          P                         P         P                               P                     P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3          3                         3         3                               3                     3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0        3.0                       3.0       3.0                             3.0                   3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000      1.000                     1.000     1.000                           1.000                 1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0        0.0                       0.0       0.0                             0.0                   0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0      0   0                0     0  0         0                               0           0         0
 Lane Width                                   12.0       12.0                      12.0      12.0                            12.0                  12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N  N   N   0                N     0  0    N    N                               N           0         N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0    0                    0     0                            0                                                  0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp            3.2                3.2                 3.2                                                    3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02          03        04        SB Only       06             07                                              08
                G = 69.3       G = 0.0    G = 0.0   G = 0.0      G = 7.7     G=            G=                                             G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y= 0       Y= 0      Y= 0         Y= 4        Y=            Y=                                             Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                              Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                  WB                 NB                                                         SB
                                   LT   TH     RT   LT     TH     RT     LT     TH      RT       LT                                       TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            121  1054                572    86                            109                                                 59
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     594         2739                      2739     1223                               262                   136
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.20        0.38                   0.21       0.07                                0.42                  0.43
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.82        0.82                   0.82       0.82                                0.09                  0.09
 Uniform Delay, d1                         1.7          2.1                       1.7      1.5                               36.5                  36.6
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000                  1.000      1.000                               1.000                 1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.50        0.50                   0.50       0.50                                0.50                  0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.8         0.4                       0.2       0.1                               4.8                   9.8
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0                       0.0      0.0                               0.0                    0.0
 Control Delay                              2.5         2.5                       1.9       1.6                              41.3                   46.4
 Lane Group LOS                             A           A                         A         A                                 D                     D
 Approach Delay                                   2.5                      1.9                                                       43.1
 Approach LOS                                      A                          A                                                       D
 Intersection Delay                               5.7                   XC = 0.39                    Intersection LOS                 A
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                HCS+TM Version 5.4                Generated: 4/4/2013     4:22 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                               Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                Intersection    Int-1
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                       Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/2/2013                                                           Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday AM Peak Hour                                               Analysis Year Future Pre-Project
                                                                                                   Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                   Project ID
                                                                                                   Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                          EB                        WB                          NB                      SB
                                                LT        TH       RT    LT         TH        RT        LT      TH      RT     LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1          2                          2         1                               2                     1
 Lane Group                                     L         T                          T        R                                L                    R
 Volume, V (vph)                                35        340                       726        34                              50                   120
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2          2                         2         2                               2                     2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00       1.00                      1.00      1.00                            1.00                  1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  P          P                         P         P                               P                     P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3          3                         3         3                               3                     3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0        3.0                       3.0       3.0                             3.0                   3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000      1.000                     1.000     1.000                           1.000                 1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0        0.0                       0.0       0.0                             0.0                   0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0      0   0                 0      00         0                               0           0         0
 Lane Width                                   12.0       12.0                      12.0      12.0                            12.0                  12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N N    N   0                 N     0 0     N   N                               N           0         N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0   0                     0     0                             0                                                 0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp           3.2                 3.2                   3.2                                                  3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02         03         04        SB Only         06            07                                           08
                G = 63.3       G = 0.0   G = 0.0    G = 0.0      G = 13.7     G = 0.0       G = 0.0                                       G = 0.0
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y= 0      Y= 0       Y= 0         Y= 4         Y= 0          Y= 0                                          Y= 0
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                               Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                  WB                   NB                                                       SB
                                  LT   TH     RT    LT     TH     RT      LT     TH      RT       LT                                      TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            35   340                 726    34                              50                                               120
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     454         2502                      2502     1117                               466                  242
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.08        0.14                   0.29       0.03                                0.11                  0.50
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.74        0.74                   0.74       0.74                                0.16                  0.16
 Uniform Delay, d1                         2.9          3.1                       3.5      2.8                               30.4                  32.5
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000                  1.000      1.000                               1.000                 1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.50        0.50                   0.50       0.50                                0.50                  0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.3         0.1                       0.3       0.1                               0.5                   7.1
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0                       0.0      0.0                               0.0                   0.0
 Control Delay                              3.3         3.2                       3.8       2.9                              30.9                  39.6
 Lane Group LOS                             A           A                         A         A                                 C                     D
 Approach Delay                                   3.2                      3.8                                                       37.0
 Approach LOS                                      A                          A                                                       D
 Intersection Delay                               7.9                   XC = 0.33                    Intersection LOS                 A
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                HCS+TM Version 5.4                Generated: 4/4/2013    4:24 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                               Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                Intersection    Int-1
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                       Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/2/2013                                                           Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday PM Peak Hour                                               Analysis Year Future Pre-Project
                                                                                                   Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                   Project ID
                                                                                                   Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                          EB                        WB                          NB                      SB
                                                LT        TH       RT    LT         TH        RT        LT      TH      RT     LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1          2                          2         1                               2                     1
 Lane Group                                     L         T                          T        R                                L                    R
 Volume, V (vph)                               123       1066                       578        86                             107                    60
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2          2                         2         2                               2                     2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00       1.00                      1.00      1.00                            1.00                  1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  P          P                         P         P                               P                     P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3          3                         3         3                               3                     3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0        3.0                       3.0       3.0                             3.0                   3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000      1.000                     1.000     1.000                           1.000                 1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0        0.0                       0.0       0.0                             0.0                   0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0      0   0                0     0  0         0                               0           0         0
 Lane Width                                   12.0       12.0                      12.0      12.0                            12.0                  12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N  N   N   0                N     0  0    N    N                               N           0         N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0    0                    0     0                            0                                                  0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp            3.2                3.2                 3.2                                                    3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02          03        04        SB Only       06             07                                              08
                G = 69.3       G = 0.0    G = 0.0   G = 0.0      G = 7.7     G=            G=                                             G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y= 0       Y= 0      Y= 0         Y= 4        Y=            Y=                                             Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                              Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                  WB                 NB                                                         SB
                                   LT   TH     RT   LT     TH     RT     LT     TH      RT       LT                                       TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            123  1066                578    86                            107                                                 60
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     591         2739                      2739     1223                               262                   136
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.21        0.39                   0.21       0.07                                0.41                  0.44
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.82        0.82                   0.82       0.82                                0.09                  0.09
 Uniform Delay, d1                         1.7          2.1                       1.8      1.5                               36.5                  36.6
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000                  1.000      1.000                               1.000                 1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.50        0.50                   0.50       0.50                                0.50                  0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.8         0.4                       0.2       0.1                               4.7                   10.0
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0                       0.0      0.0                               0.0                    0.0
 Control Delay                              2.5         2.5                       1.9       1.6                              41.2                   46.7
 Lane Group LOS                             A           A                         A         A                                 D                     D
 Approach Delay                                   2.5                      1.9                                                       43.1
 Approach LOS                                      A                          A                                                       D
 Intersection Delay                               5.7                   XC = 0.39                    Intersection LOS                 A
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                HCS+TM Version 5.4                Generated: 4/4/2013     4:25 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                               Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                Intersection    Int-1
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                       Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/2/2013                                                           Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday AM PM Hour                                                 Analysis Year Future With Project
                                                                                                   Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                   Project ID
                                                                                                   Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                          EB                        WB                          NB                      SB
                                                LT        TH       RT    LT         TH        RT        LT      TH      RT     LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1          2                          2         1                               2                     1
 Lane Group                                     L         T                          T        R                                L                    R
 Volume, V (vph)                                35        342                       735        38                              51                   120
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2          2                         2         2                               2                     2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00       1.00                      1.00      1.00                            1.00                  1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  P          P                         P         P                               P                     P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3          3                         3         3                               3                     3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0        3.0                       3.0       3.0                             3.0                   3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000      1.000                     1.000     1.000                           1.000                 1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0        0.0                       0.0       0.0                             0.0                   0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0      0   0                 0      00         0                               0           0         0
 Lane Width                                   12.0       12.0                      12.0      12.0                            12.0                  12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N N    N   0                 N     0 0     N   N                               N           0         N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0   0                     0     0                             0                                                 0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp           3.2                 3.2                   3.2                                                  3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02         03         04        SB Only         06            07                                           08
                G = 63.3       G = 0.0   G = 0.0    G = 0.0      G = 13.7     G = 0.0       G = 0.0                                       G = 0.0
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y= 0      Y= 0       Y= 0         Y= 4         Y= 0          Y= 0                                          Y= 0
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                               Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                  WB                   NB                                                       SB
                                  LT   TH     RT    LT     TH     RT      LT     TH      RT       LT                                      TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            35   342                 735    38                              51                                               120
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     449         2502                      2502     1117                               466                  242
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.08        0.14                   0.29       0.03                                0.11                  0.50
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.74        0.74                   0.74       0.74                                0.16                  0.16
 Uniform Delay, d1                         2.9          3.1                       3.5      2.8                               30.4                  32.5
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000                  1.000      1.000                               1.000                 1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.50        0.50                   0.50       0.50                                0.50                  0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.3         0.1                       0.3       0.1                               0.5                   7.1
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0                       0.0      0.0                               0.0                   0.0
 Control Delay                              3.3         3.2                       3.8       2.9                              30.9                  39.6
 Lane Group LOS                             A           A                         A         A                                 C                     D
 Approach Delay                                   3.2                      3.8                                                       37.0
 Approach LOS                                      A                          A                                                       D
 Intersection Delay                               7.9                   XC = 0.33                    Intersection LOS                 A
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                HCS+TM Version 5.4                Generated: 4/4/2013    4:25 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                               Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                Intersection    Int-1
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                       Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/2/2013                                                           Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday PM Peak Hour                                               Analysis Year Future With Project
                                                                                                   Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                   Project ID
                                                                                                   Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                          EB                        WB                          NB                      SB
                                                LT        TH       RT    LT         TH        RT        LT      TH      RT     LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1          2                          2         1                               2                     1
 Lane Group                                     L         T                          T        R                                L                    R
 Volume, V (vph)                               123       1075                       583        88                             111                    60
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2          2                         2         2                               2                     2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00       1.00                      1.00      1.00                            1.00                  1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  P          P                         P         P                               P                     P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0        2.0                       2.0       2.0                             2.0                   2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3          3                         3         3                               3                     3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0        3.0                       3.0       3.0                             3.0                   3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000      1.000                     1.000     1.000                           1.000                 1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0        0.0                       0.0       0.0                             0.0                   0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0      0   0                0     0  0         0                               0           0         0
 Lane Width                                   12.0       12.0                      12.0      12.0                            12.0                  12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N  N   N   0                N     0  0    N    N                               N           0         N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0    0                    0     0                            0                                                  0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp            3.2                3.2                 3.2                                                    3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02          03        04        SB Only       06             07                                              08
                G = 69.3       G = 0.0    G = 0.0   G = 0.0      G = 7.7     G=            G=                                             G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y= 0       Y= 0      Y= 0         Y= 4        Y=            Y=                                             Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                              Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                  WB                 NB                                                         SB
                                   LT   TH     RT   LT     TH     RT     LT     TH      RT       LT                                       TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            123  1075                583    88                            111                                                 60
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     588         2739                      2739     1223                               262                   136
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.21        0.39                   0.21       0.07                                0.42                  0.44
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.82        0.82                   0.82       0.82                                0.09                  0.09
 Uniform Delay, d1                         1.7          2.1                       1.8      1.5                               36.6                  36.6
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000                  1.000      1.000                               1.000                 1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.50        0.50                   0.50       0.50                                0.50                  0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.8         0.4                       0.2       0.1                               5.0                   10.0
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0                       0.0      0.0                               0.0                    0.0
 Control Delay                              2.6         2.6                       1.9       1.7                              41.5                   46.7
 Lane Group LOS                             A           A                         A         A                                 D                     D
 Approach Delay                                   2.6                      1.9                                                       43.3
 Approach LOS                                      A                          A                                                       D
 Intersection Delay                               5.8                   XC = 0.40                    Intersection LOS                 A
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                HCS+TM Version 5.4                Generated: 4/4/2013     4:26 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                                  Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                   Intersection    Int-2
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                          Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/4/2013                                                              Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday AM Peak Hour                                                  Analysis Year Existing 2013
                                                                                                      Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                      Project ID
                                                                                                      Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                           EB                           WB                             NB                      SB
                                                LT         TH      RT       LT           TH       RT        LT          TH     RT      LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1           2       0        1            2        0         1           2      0       1        2           0
 Lane Group                                     L         TR                L           TR                  L          TR              L       TR
 Volume, V (vph)                                1959       294        25    24          593                137          80      41     33       82           34
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2 2         2         2     2             2                 2            2      2      2         2           2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00
                                                1.00      1.00      1.00  1.00         1.00               1.00        1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00         1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  A A         A         A     A            A                  P           P       P      P        P            P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3           3               3             3                 3            3             3         3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0         3.0             3.0          3.0                3.0         3.0            3.0      3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000       1.000           1.000        1.000              1.000       1.000          1.000    1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0                0.0         0.0            0.0      0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0 0         0         0     0             0                 0            0      0      0         0           0
 Lane Width                                   12.0        12.0            12.0         12.0               12.0        12.0           12.0     12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N N         0         N     N             0                 N           0       N      N         0           N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0   0             0        0             0                                      0               0           0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp           3.2                  3.2                                                   3.2                         3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02         03          04       Excl. Left                                    Thru & RT         07                   08
                G = 56.0       G=        G=           G=          G = 12.7                                      G = 8.3       G=                  G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y=        Y=           Y=          Y= 0                                          Y= 4          Y=                  Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                                                                 Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                   WB                                                       NB                          SB
                                  LT   TH     RT     LT     TH     RT      LT                                         TH      RT      LT          TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            19   353           24     618           137                                       121               33       116
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     439         2158            594         2200                237         311               237      314
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.04        0.16             0.04     0.28                  0.58         0.39             0.14     0.37
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.66        0.66             0.66     0.66                  0.15         0.10             0.15     0.10
 Uniform Delay, d1                         5.1          5.5             5.1         6.1                33.7         36.0             31.4     35.9
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000            1.000    1.000                 1.000        1.000            1.000    1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.11        0.11             0.11     0.11                  0.50         0.50             0.50     0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.0          0.0             0.0          0.1               9.9           3.6             1.2       3.3
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0             0.0         0.0                 0.0         0.0              0.0       0.0
 Control Delay                              5.1          5.6             5.1          6.1               43.5        39.6             32.6      39.2
 Lane Group LOS                             A            A               A            A                  D            D               C         D
 Approach Delay                                   5.6                           6.1                            41.7                          37.8
 Approach LOS                                      A                            A                               D                             D
 Intersection Delay                               15.7                    XC = 0.34                     Intersection LOS                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                    HCS+TM Version 5.4                    Generated: 4/9/2013    9:51 AM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                                  Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                   Intersection    Int-2
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                          Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/4/2013                                                              Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday PM Peak Hour                                                  Analysis Year Existing 2013
                                                                                                      Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                      Project ID
                                                                                                      Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                           EB                           WB                             NB                      SB
                                                LT         TH      RT       LT           TH       RT        LT          TH     RT      LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1           2       0        1            2        0         1           2      0       1        2           0
 Lane Group                                     L         TR                L           TR                  L          TR              L       TR
 Volume, V (vph)                                27199      927         35   32          600                115         121      47     55      126           24
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2  2        2          2    2             2                 2            2      2      2         2           2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00
                                                 1.00     1.00       1.00 1.00         1.00               1.00        1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00         1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  A  A        A          A    A            A                  P           P       P      P        P            P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3           3               3             3                 3            3             3         3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0         3.0             3.0          3.0                3.0         3.0            3.0      3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000       1.000           1.000        1.000              1.000       1.000          1.000    1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0                0.0         0.0            0.0      0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0  0        0          0    0             0                 0            0      0      0         0           0
 Lane Width                                   12.0        12.0            12.0         12.0               12.0        12.0           12.0     12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N  N        0          N    N             0                 N           0       N      N         0           N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0    0             0        0             0                                     0               0           0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp            3.2                  3.2                                                  3.2                         3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02          03          04       Excl. Left                                   Thru & RT         07                   08
                G = 57.5       G=         G=           G=          G = 11.0                                     G = 8.5       G=                  G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y=         Y=           Y=          Y= 0                                         Y= 4          Y=                  Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                                                                 Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                    WB                                                      NB                          SB
                                  LT    TH     RT     LT     TH     RT      LT                                        TH      RT      LT          TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            27   1126           32     635           115                                      168               55       150
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     446         2213            239         2254                205         322               205      328
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.06        0.51             0.13     0.28                  0.56         0.52             0.27     0.46
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.68        0.68             0.68     0.68                  0.13         0.10             0.13     0.10
 Uniform Delay, d1                         4.6          6.8             4.9         5.5                34.7         36.3             33.4     36.1
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000            1.000    1.000                 1.000        1.000            1.000    1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.11        0.12             0.11     0.11                  0.50         0.50             0.50     0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.1          0.2             0.3          0.1               10.6          5.9             3.2       4.5
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0             0.0         0.0                 0.0         0.0              0.0       0.0
 Control Delay                              4.7          7.0             5.1          5.6               45.4        42.3             36.6      40.6
 Lane Group LOS                             A            A               A            A                  D            D               D         D
 Approach Delay                                   6.9                           5.5                            43.5                          39.5
 Approach LOS                                      A                            A                               D                             D
 Intersection Delay                               13.9                    XC = 0.52                     Intersection LOS                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                    HCS+TM Version 5.4                    Generated: 4/4/2013    5:00 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                                  Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                   Intersection    Int-2
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                          Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/4/2013                                                              Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday AM Peak Hour                                                  Analysis Year Existing + Project
                                                                                                      Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                      Project ID
                                                                                                      Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                           EB                           WB                             NB                      SB
                                                LT         TH      RT       LT           TH       RT        LT          TH     RT      LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1           2       0        1            2        0         1           2      0       1        2           0
 Lane Group                                     L         TR                L           TR                  L          TR              L       TR
 Volume, V (vph)                                2363       299        25    24          594                137          80      41     33       82           34
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2 2         2         2     2             2                 2            2      2      2         2           2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00
                                                1.00      1.00      1.00  1.00         1.00               1.00        1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00         1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  A A         A         A     A            A                  P           P       P      P        P            P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3           3               3             3                 3            3             3         3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0         3.0             3.0          3.0                3.0         3.0            3.0      3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000       1.000           1.000        1.000              1.000       1.000          1.000    1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0                0.0         0.0            0.0      0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0 0         0         0     0             0                 0            0      0      0         0           0
 Lane Width                                   12.0        12.0            12.0         12.0               12.0        12.0           12.0     12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N N         0         N     N             0                 N           0       N      N         0           N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0   0             0        0             0                                      0               0           0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp           3.2                  3.2                                                   3.2                         3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02         03          04       Excl. Left                                    Thru & RT         07                   08
                G = 56.6       G=        G=           G=          G = 13.1                                      G = 7.3       G=                  G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y=        Y=           Y=          Y= 0                                          Y= 4          Y=                  Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                                                                 Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                   WB                                                       NB                          SB
                                  LT   TH     RT     LT     TH     RT      LT                                         TH      RT      LT          TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            23   362           24     619           137                                       121               33       116
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     445         2179            595         2224                244         274               244      276
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.05        0.17             0.04     0.28                  0.56         0.44             0.14     0.42
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.67        0.67             0.67     0.67                  0.15         0.09             0.15     0.09
 Uniform Delay, d1                         4.9          5.3             4.9         5.8                33.3         36.9             31.1     36.8
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000            1.000    1.000                 1.000        1.000            1.000    1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.11        0.11             0.11     0.11                  0.50         0.50             0.50     0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.0          0.0             0.0          0.1               9.0           5.1             1.2       4.6
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0             0.0         0.0                 0.0         0.0              0.0       0.0
 Control Delay                              5.0          5.4             4.9          5.9               42.3        42.0             32.2      41.5
 Lane Group LOS                             A            A               A            A                  D            D               C         D
 Approach Delay                                   5.3                           5.9                            42.2                          39.4
 Approach LOS                                      A                            A                               D                             D
 Intersection Delay                               15.7                    XC = 0.34                     Intersection LOS                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                    HCS+TM Version 5.4                    Generated: 4/4/2013    4:45 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                                  Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                   Intersection    Int-2
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                          Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/4/2013                                                              Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday PM Peak Hour                                                  Analysis Year Existing + Project
                                                                                                      Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                      Project ID
                                                                                                      Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                           EB                           WB                             NB                      SB
                                                LT         TH      RT       LT           TH       RT        LT          TH     RT      LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1           2       0        1            2        0         1           2      0       1        2           0
 Lane Group                                     L         TR                L           TR                  L          TR              L       TR
 Volume, V (vph)                                29201      930         35   32          605                119         121      47     55      126           28
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2  2        2          2    2             2                 2            2      2      2         2           2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00
                                                 1.00     1.00       1.00 1.00         1.00               1.00        1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00         1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  A  A        A          A    A            A                  P           P       P      P        P            P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3           3               3             3                 3            3             3         3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0         3.0             3.0          3.0                3.0         3.0            3.0      3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000       1.000           1.000        1.000              1.000       1.000          1.000    1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0                0.0         0.0            0.0      0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0  0        0          0    0             0                 0            0      0      0         0           0
 Lane Width                                   12.0        12.0            12.0         12.0               12.0        12.0           12.0     12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N  N        0          N    N             0                 N           0       N      N         0           N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0    0             0        0             0                                     0               0           0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp            3.2                  3.2                                                  3.2                         3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02          03          04       Excl. Left                                   Thru & RT         07                   08
                G = 57.5       G=         G=           G=          G = 10.9                                     G = 8.6       G=                  G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y=         Y=           Y=          Y= 0                                         Y= 4          Y=                  Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                                                                 Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                    WB                                                      NB                          SB
                                  LT    TH     RT     LT     TH     RT      LT                                        TH      RT      LT          TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            29   1131           32     640           119                                      168               55       154
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     443         2212            237         2254                203         326               203      331
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.07        0.51             0.14     0.28                  0.59         0.52             0.27     0.47
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.68        0.68             0.68     0.68                  0.13         0.10             0.13     0.10
 Uniform Delay, d1                         4.7          6.8             4.9         5.5                34.9         36.2             33.5     36.0
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000            1.000    1.000                 1.000        1.000            1.000    1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.11        0.12             0.11     0.11                  0.50         0.50             0.50     0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.1          0.2             0.3          0.1               11.8          5.7             3.3       4.6
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0             0.0         0.0                 0.0         0.0              0.0       0.0
 Control Delay                              4.7          7.0             5.2          5.6               46.7        41.9             36.7      40.7
 Lane Group LOS                             A            A               A            A                  D            D               D         D
 Approach Delay                                   6.9                           5.6                            43.9                          39.6
 Approach LOS                                      A                            A                               D                             D
 Intersection Delay                               14.0                    XC = 0.52                     Intersection LOS                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                    HCS+TM Version 5.4                    Generated: 4/4/2013    5:03 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                                  Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                   Intersection    Int-2
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                          Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/4/2013                                                              Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday AM Peak Hour                                                  Analysis Year Future Pre-Project
                                                                                                      Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                      Project ID
                                                                                                      Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                           EB                           WB                           NB                       SB
                                                LT         TH      RT       LT           TH     RT        LT          TH     RT       LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1           2       0        1            2      0         1           2      0        1        2           0
 Lane Group                                     L         TR                L           TR                L          TR               L       TR
 Volume, V (vph)                                1960       300        26    24          605              140          82      42      34       84          35
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2 2         2         2     2             2               2            2      2       2         2          2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00
                                                1.00      1.00      1.00  1.00         1.00             1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00        1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  A A         A         A     A            A                P           P       P       P        P           P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0              2.0         2.0             2.0      2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0              2.0         2.0             2.0      2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3           3               3             3               3            3              3         3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0         3.0             3.0          3.0              3.0         3.0             3.0      3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000       1.000           1.000        1.000            1.000       1.000           1.000    1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0              0.0         0.0             0.0      0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0 0         0         0     0             0               0            0      0       0         0           0
 Lane Width                                   12.0        12.0            12.0         12.0             12.0        12.0            12.0     12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N N         0         N     N             0               N           0       N       N         0           N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0   0             0        0             0                                    0               0            0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp           3.2                  3.2                                                 3.2                          3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02         03          04       Excl. Left                                  Thru & RT         07                    08
                G = 51.8       G=        G=           G=          G = 12.9                                    G = 8.3       G=                   G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y=        Y=           Y=          Y= 4                                        Y= 4          Y=                   Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                                                               Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                   WB                                                     NB                           SB
                                  LT   TH     RT     LT     TH     RT      LT                                       TH      RT        LT         TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            19   360           24     631           140                                     124                34       119
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     391         1996            545         2035              240         311                240      314
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.05        0.18             0.04     0.31                0.58         0.40              0.14     0.38
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.61        0.61             0.61     0.61                0.15         0.10              0.15     0.10
 Uniform Delay, d1                         6.7          7.3             6.7         8.0              33.5         36.0              31.3     35.9
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000            1.000    1.000               1.000        1.000             1.000    1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.11        0.11             0.11     0.11                0.50         0.50              0.50     0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.1          0.0             0.0          0.1             10.0          3.8              1.2       3.5
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0             0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0               0.0       0.0
 Control Delay                              6.7          7.3             6.7          8.1             43.5        39.8              32.5      39.4
 Lane Group LOS                             A            A               A            A               D             D                C         D
 Approach Delay                                   7.3                           8.0                          41.8                           37.9
 Approach LOS                                      A                            A                             D                              D
 Intersection Delay                               17.1                    XC = 0.37                   Intersection LOS                       B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                 HCS+TM Version 5.4                     Generated: 4/9/2013     10:03 AM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                                  Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                   Intersection    Int-2
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                          Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/4/2013                                                              Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday PM Peak Hour                                                  Analysis Year Future Pre-Project
                                                                                                      Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                      Project ID
                                                                                                      Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                           EB                           WB                             NB                      SB
                                                LT         TH      RT       LT           TH       RT        LT          TH     RT      LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1           2       0        1            2        0         1           2      0       1        2           0
 Lane Group                                     L         TR                L           TR                  L          TR              L       TR
 Volume, V (vph)                                28203      946         36   33          612                117         123      48     56      129           24
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2  2        2          2    2             2                 2            2      2      2         2           2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00
                                                 1.00     1.00       1.00 1.00         1.00               1.00        1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00         1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  A  A        A          A    A            A                  P           P       P      P        P            P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3           3               3             3                 3            3             3         3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0         3.0             3.0          3.0                3.0         3.0            3.0      3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000       1.000           1.000        1.000              1.000       1.000          1.000    1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0                0.0         0.0            0.0      0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0  0        0          0    0             0                 0            0      0      0         0           0
 Lane Width                                   12.0        12.0            12.0         12.0               12.0        12.0           12.0     12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N  N        0          N    N             0                 N           0       N      N         0           N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0    0             0        0             0                                     0               0           0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp            3.2                  3.2                                                  3.2                         3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02          03          04       Excl. Left                                   Thru & RT         07                   08
                G = 57.5       G=         G=           G=          G = 10.9                                     G = 8.6       G=                  G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y=         Y=           Y=          Y= 0                                         Y= 4          Y=                  Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                                                                 Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                    WB                                                      NB                          SB
                                  LT    TH     RT     LT     TH     RT      LT                                        TH      RT      LT          TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            28   1149           33     648           117                                      171               56       153
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     439         2213            231         2254                203         326               203      332
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.06        0.52             0.14     0.29                  0.58         0.52             0.28     0.46
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.68        0.68             0.68     0.68                  0.13         0.10             0.13     0.10
 Uniform Delay, d1                         4.6          6.9             4.9         5.5                34.9         36.3             33.5     36.0
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000            1.000    1.000                 1.000        1.000            1.000    1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.11        0.12             0.11     0.11                  0.50         0.50             0.50     0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.1          0.2             0.3          0.1               11.4          5.9             3.3       4.5
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0             0.0         0.0                 0.0         0.0              0.0       0.0
 Control Delay                              4.7          7.1             5.2          5.6               46.3        42.2             36.8      40.6
 Lane Group LOS                             A            A               A            A                  D            D               D         D
 Approach Delay                                   7.0                           5.6                            43.8                          39.6
 Approach LOS                                      A                            A                               D                             D
 Intersection Delay                               14.0                    XC = 0.53                     Intersection LOS                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                    HCS+TM Version 5.4                    Generated: 4/4/2013    5:05 PM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                                  Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                   Intersection    Int-2
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                          Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/4/2013                                                              Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday AM Peak Hour                                                  Analysis Year Future With Project
                                                                                                      Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                      Project ID
                                                                                                      Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                           EB                           WB                           NB                       SB
                                                LT         TH      RT       LT           TH     RT        LT          TH     RT       LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1           2       0        1            2      0         1           2      0        1        2           0
 Lane Group                                     L         TR                L           TR                L          TR               L       TR
 Volume, V (vph)                                2364       305        26    24          606              140          82      42      34       84          35
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2 2         2         2     2             2               2            2      2       2         2          2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00
                                                1.00      1.00      1.00  1.00         1.00             1.00        1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00        1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  A A         A         A     A            A                P           P       P       P        P           P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0              2.0         2.0             2.0      2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0              2.0         2.0             2.0      2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3           3               3             3               3            3              3         3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0         3.0             3.0          3.0              3.0         3.0             3.0      3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000       1.000           1.000        1.000            1.000       1.000           1.000    1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0              0.0         0.0             0.0      0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0 0         0         0     0             0               0            0      0       0         0           0
 Lane Width                                   12.0        12.0            12.0         12.0             12.0        12.0            12.0     12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N N         0         N     N             0               N           0       N       N         0           N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0   0             0        0             0                                    0               0            0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp           3.2                  3.2                                                 3.2                          3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02         03          04       Excl. Left                                  Thru & RT         07                    08
                G = 51.7       G=        G=           G=          G = 12.0                                    G = 9.3       G=                   G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y=        Y=           Y=          Y= 4                                        Y= 4          Y=                   Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                                                               Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                   WB                                                     NB                           SB
                                  LT   TH     RT     LT     TH     RT      LT                                       TH      RT        LT         TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            23   369           24     632           140                                     124                34       119
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     390         1991            540         2031              223         349                223      351
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.06        0.19             0.04     0.31                0.63         0.36              0.15     0.34
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.61        0.61             0.61     0.61                0.14         0.11              0.14     0.11
 Uniform Delay, d1                         6.8          7.4             6.7         8.0              34.4         35.1              32.0     35.0
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000            1.000    1.000               1.000        1.000             1.000    1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.11        0.11             0.11     0.11                0.50         0.50              0.50     0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.1          0.0             0.0          0.1             12.7          2.8              1.4       2.6
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0             0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0               0.0       0.0
 Control Delay                              6.8          7.4             6.7          8.1             47.1        37.9              33.5      37.6
 Lane Group LOS                             A            A               A            A               D             D                C         D
 Approach Delay                                   7.4                           8.1                          42.7                           36.7
 Approach LOS                                      A                            A                             D                              D
 Intersection Delay                               17.1                    XC = 0.37                   Intersection LOS                       B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                 HCS+TM Version 5.4                     Generated: 4/9/2013     10:07 AM
                                                               HCS+TM DETAILED REPORT
 General Information                                                                  Site Information
 Analyst        DLR                                                                   Intersection    Int-2
 Agency or Co. LLG Engineers                                                          Area Type       All other areas
 Date Performed 4/4/2013                                                              Jurisdiction    City of Pomona
 Time Period    Weekday PM Peak Hour                                                  Analysis Year Future With Project
                                                                                                      Holt Family Apartments
                                                                                      Project ID
                                                                                                      Project/1-13-4013-1
 Volume and Timing Input
                                                           EB                           WB                             NB                      SB
                                                LT         TH      RT       LT           TH       RT        LT          TH     RT      LT       TH          RT
 Number of Lanes, N1                           1           2       0        1            2        0         1           2      0       1        2           0
 Lane Group                                     L         TR                L           TR                  L          TR              L       TR
 Volume, V (vph)                                30205      949         36   33          617                121         123      48     56      129           28
 % Heavy Vehicles, %HV                         2  2        2          2    2             2                 2            2      2      2         2           2
 Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                        1.00
                                                 1.00     1.00       1.00 1.00         1.00               1.00        1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00         1.00
 Pretimed (P) or Actuated (A)                  A  A        A          A    A            A                  P           P       P      P        P            P
 Start-up Lost Time, l1                       2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Extension of Effective Green, e              2.0         2.0             2.0          2.0                2.0         2.0            2.0      2.0
 Arrival Type, AT                              3           3               3             3                 3            3             3         3
 Unit Extension, UE                           3.0         3.0             3.0          3.0                3.0         3.0            3.0      3.0
 Filtering/Metering, I                        1.000       1.000           1.000        1.000              1.000       1.000          1.000    1.000
 Initial Unmet Demand, Qb                     0.0         0.0             0.0          0.0                0.0         0.0            0.0      0.0
 Ped / Bike / RTOR Volumes                     0  0        0          0    0             0                 0            0      0      0         0           0
 Lane Width                                   12.0        12.0            12.0         12.0               12.0        12.0           12.0     12.0
 Parking / Grade / Parking                     N  N        0          N    N             0                 N           0       N      N         0           N
 Parking Maneuvers, Nm
 Buses Stopping, NB                  0    0             0        0             0                                     0               0           0
 Min. Time for Pedestrians, Gp            3.2                  3.2                                                  3.2                         3.2
 Phasing         EW Perm          02          03          04       Excl. Left                                   Thru & RT         07                   08
                G = 57.5       G=         G=           G=          G = 10.9                                     G = 8.6       G=                  G=
 Timing
                Y= 4           Y=         Y=           Y=          Y= 0                                         Y= 4          Y=                  Y=
 Duration of Analysis, T = 0.25                                                                                 Cycle Length, C = 85.0
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                        EB                    WB                                                      NB                          SB
                                  LT    TH     RT     LT     TH     RT      LT                                        TH      RT      LT          TH        RT
 Adjusted Flow Rate, v            30   1154           33     653           121                                      171               56       157
 Lane Group Capacity, c                     436         2212            229         2254                203         326               203      331
 v/c Ratio, X                              0.07        0.52             0.14     0.29                  0.60         0.52             0.28     0.47
 Total Green Ratio, g/C                    0.68        0.68             0.68     0.68                  0.13         0.10             0.13     0.10
 Uniform Delay, d1                         4.7          6.9             4.9         5.5                35.0         36.3             33.5     36.1
 Progression Factor, PF                    1.000       1.000            1.000    1.000                 1.000        1.000            1.000    1.000
 Delay Calibration, k                      0.11        0.13             0.11     0.11                  0.50         0.50             0.50     0.50
 Incremental Delay, d2                      0.1          0.2             0.3          0.1               12.3          5.9             3.3       4.8
 Initial Queue Delay, d3                   0.0          0.0             0.0         0.0                 0.0         0.0              0.0       0.0
 Control Delay                              4.7          7.1             5.2          5.6               47.2        42.2             36.8      40.9
 Lane Group LOS                             A            A               A            A                  D            D               D         D
 Approach Delay                                   7.0                           5.6                            44.3                          39.8
 Approach LOS                                      A                            A                               D                             D
 Intersection Delay                               14.1                    XC = 0.53                     Intersection LOS                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                                    HCS+TM Version 5.4                    Generated: 4/4/2013    5:08 PM
          ATTATCHMENT 11
SITE PHOTOGRAPHS SUBMITTED BY THE
    APPLICANT, DATED APRIL 8, 2013
            ATTACHMENT 12
LETTER AND MATERIALS SUBMITTED BY THE
   APPLICANT, DATED JANUARY 22, 2014
        ATTACHMENT 13
PARKING STUDY SUBMIITED BY THE
          APPLICANT
                                                        MEMORANDUM

Date: 1/10/14

To: Brad Johnson

From: Saki Middleton

Subject: Parking Analysis ­ 934 West Holt Avenue, Pomona, CA
                                                                                                                                     
  
Project Description: Holt Avenue Family apartments, is a new construction 62-unit housing project that will serve
low-income individuals and families. The project will restrict 21 of the total units (consisting of 16 one ­bedroom
and 5 two-bedroom units) for permanent housing for Tri-City's Mental Health Authority (MHSA) clients. The
MHSA restricted units will provide permanent supportive housing for individuals who are homeless, at risk of
homelessness, and have been diagnosed with a mental illness. The project will provide onsite parking for the
residents and bi-weekly coordinated van service.

Summary of Parking to be provided at Project:

0.5 for all MHSA restricted units (21 units)                       = 10.5 Spaces
1 for half of the 2 bdrm units (11 units)                          = 11 spaces
1.5 for half of the 2 bdrm units (11 units)                        = 16.5 spaces
1.5 for all 3 bedroom units (19 units)                             = 28.5 spaces
                                     Total Resident                = 66.5 (67) spaces
                                     Total Guest                   = 8.5 (8) spaces
                                     Grand Total                   = 75 Total spaces

Proximity to Public Transportation/Transportation Accessibility:

The property is within 400 ft of the 482 Foothill Transit bus stop, which runs every 30 minutes. The route connects
to the Pomona train Station that is served by the Metrolink.

Bicycle Racks:

Bicycle racks will be provide at multiple locations on the property.

Free Transportation Service:

Shield of Faith Economic Development Corporation, the co ­developer will provide free weekly or bi-weekly van
services to the residents. The tenants will be surveyed to determine specific times and days needed for trips to take
tenants to the grocery store/supermarket or convenience store, etc.

Annual Household Income Restrictions for Tenants:

MHSA Restricted Units: Twenty-one (21) of the units will be restricted to individuals who are homeless, at risk of
homelessness, or have been diagnosed with a mental illness. The MHSA units are underwritten at the Social
Security Income Level, which is approximately $256 per month. The target MHSA households have an annual
income of approximately $17,130 for a one-person household and $19,560 for a two-person household.

Low-Income Restricted Units: The remaining forty-one (41) units in the project will be restricted to low-income
households whose incomes are between $19,560 and $52,860.




      RELATED CALIFORNIA · 18201 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 900, Irvine, CA 92612 · (949) 660-7272 phone · (949) 660-7273 fax · www.related.com
Parking Demand for Affordable Housing projects:

Related owns and manages approximately 8,000 units of affordable housing throughout the state of California. After
surveying the Related affordable housing portfolio in California I was able to examine the primary determinant of
parking demand considering both the level of household availability and factors that affect it. The following is a
summary of my findings:

    1.   Parking demand is less in properties that are located on commercial corridors with transit service/public
         transportation (i.e. buses, etc).
    2.   Higher parking demand is associated with three bedroom units
    3.   Household vehicle availability varies significantly with Household Incomes. The lowest incomes don't
         have cars and use public transportation.
    4.   In all of the projects studied, the amount of peak overnight parking used was less than the amount of
         parking supplied.


Parking Demand for MHSA restricted units:

The following is a summary of the actual parking demand for five (5) separate projects located in Los Angeles
County with MHSA restricted units:

Property/Location                              Total Units MHSA Units Spaces Used/MHSA Tenants
Villas at Gower
1726 Gower Street Los Angeles, CA                    71           35                  14 (40%)
28th Street Apartments
1006 East 28th Street Los Angeles, CA                49           30                   3 (10%)
NoHo Villas
5525 Klump Avenue                                    49           31                  13 (42%)
North Hollywood, CA
Willis Avenue Apartments
14731 Rayen Street Los Angeles, CA                   41           34                   9 (26%)

Glenoaks Gardens
8925 Glenoaks Boulevard Sun Valley, CA               61           53                   8 (15%)


In summary the average demand for parking for the foregoing MHSA units is 26.60%. The subject Project is
providing parking for half (50%) of the MHSA units.

The purpose of this study is to determine the parking demand for the subject Project. The Project will have 21
MHSA and 41 low and very low-income restricted units. The MHSA household incomes will be extremely low due
to the tenant's qualification standards of being homeless, at risk of homelessness, or have been diagnosed with a
mental illness. The rents being underwritten for the MHSA units are approximately $256 per month. In addition,
based on our experience and surveying a sampling of similar existing projects in operation, .5 parking spaces for all
the MHSA units is adequate and may be unutilized. Eleven (11) of the twenty-two (22) two-bedroom units will be
parked 1:1. Based on our internal survey of the projects in Related's 8,000 unit portfolio there are low levels of
household vehicle availability due to household incomes and high demand for public transportation. Therefore 1:1
parking for half of the two-bedroom units is adequate and may be underutilized. As an amenity to the residents and
to combat the lack of vehicular affordability the Developer/owner will provide will provide free weekly or bi-
weekly van services to the residents. The goal of this service will be to provide households with transportation to
and from grocery stores and convince stores.
         ATTACHMENT 14
FULL SIZE PLANS (SEPARATE COVER)
