            NAPERVILLE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
               COUNCIL CHAMBERS ­ MUNICIPAL CENTER
                           FINAL AGENDA
                         07/05/2012 - 7:00 p.m.

CALL TO ORDER:

A.        ROLL CALL

B.        APPROVE MINUTES

     1.   Approve the minutes of the June 20, 2012 Planning and Zoning
          Commission meeting.

C.        OLD BUSINESS

     1.   PZC Case # 12-1-050 Health Care Center at Monarch Landing
          (Continued from the June 6, 2012 PZC meeting)
          Petitioner: Naperville Senior Care, LLC, 2255 Monarch Drive,
          Naperville, IL 60563
          Location: Northeast corner of Route 59 and Ferry Road with a
          common street address of 2255 Monarch Drive

          Request: Close the public hearing and recommend approval for a
          preliminary plat of subdivision, a conditional use for a nursing home in
          OCI (Office, Commercial and Institutional District), a major change to
          the Monarch Landing Planned Unit Development (PUD), and a
          preliminary PUD plat for Lot 1B in order to develop an assistant living
          and nursing facility on Lot 1B of Monarch Landing.

          Official Notice: Published in the Naperville Sun on May 20, 2012.

D.        PUBLIC HEARINGS

     1.   PZC Case # 12-1-083 Sudsational (5th Avenue Properties)
          Petitioner: OCP Acquisitions, LLC. dba Sudsational, 14101 W. Lambs
          Lane, Libertyville, IL 60048
          Location: 452-588 W. 5th Avenue

          Request: Conduct the public hearing for a conditional use for an
          automobile repair facility in I (Industrial District) for the property
                                   AGENDA
           NAPERVILLE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
               07/05/2012 - 7:00 p.m. - COUNCIL CHAMBERS
                                    Page 2

         located at 452-588 W. 5th Avenue.

         Official Notice: Published in the Naperville Sun on Sunday, June 20,
         2012.

 E.      REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

 F.      CORRESPONDENCE

 G.      NEW BUSINESS

 H.      ADJOURNMENT


Any individual with a disability requesting a reasonable accommodation in order to
participate in a public meeting should contact the Accessibility Coordinator at least
48 hours in advance of the scheduled meeting. The Accessibility Coordinator can be
reached in person at 400 S. Eagle Street, Naperville, IL., via telephone at 630-420-
6725 or 630-305-5205 (TDD) or via e-mail at manningm@naperville.il.us. Every
effort will be made to allow for meeting participation.
                   NAPERVILLE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
                          DRAFT MINUTES OF JUNE 20, 2012

Call to Order                                                                               7: 00 p.m.

A. Roll Call

Present:              Bruno, Coyne, Frost, Gustin, Herzog, Messer, Meyer, Trowbridge, Williams
Absent:
Student Members:      Kevin Wei
Staff Present:        Planning Team ­ Allison Laff, Ying Liu, Tim Felstrup, Clint Smith
                      Engineer ­ Andy Hynes

B. Minutes            Approve the minutes of June 6, 2012 subject to the amendment that adding "due
                      to losing 30+ parking spaces" to the fourth bullet point under "Planning and
                      Zoning Discussion" on Page 3.

                      Motion by: Gustin                                                      Approved
                      Second by: Meyer                                                         (9 to 0)

C. Old Business

D. Public Hearings

D1.                   The petitioner proposes to replace the face panels on two existing,
PZC Case #12-1-075    nonconforming monument signs without bringing the signs into compliance
Speedway              with the current monument-sign regulations. In order to replace the face panels
                      and not bring the sign into compliance, the petitioner requests a sign variance.

                      Tim Felstrup, Planning Services Team, gave an overview of the request.
                         · The red canopies are currently located on two of the existing three signs.
                            One of the signs that have the red canopy is a conforming sign.
                         · The red canopies would be replaced with a shorter architectural
                            limestone feature and the variance is not related to the height of the
                            signs, but related to the non-conforming status of the signs.

                      Planning and Zoning Commission inquired about:
                         · Which signs have the red canopies?
                         · Whether the red canopies on the signs would be removed or replaced.
                         · Whether the variance takes the reduced height into consideration due to
                             the removal of the canopies.
                         · Whether removal of the canopies should be a condition of approval for
                             this sign variance. Staff agrees that the removal of the red canopies
      Naperville Planning and Zoning Commission
      June 20, 2012
      Page 2 of 9

                                 should be a condition of approval.

                         Public Testimony: None

                         Planning and Zoning Commission inquired about:
                         · A variance to the size of the signs was previously granted for the property
                            based on the traffic on the adjacent roads and the difficulty to see the signs.
                            Is the petitioner seeking additional variances to the size of the signs? Staff
                            confirmed no.

                         Planning and Zoning Commission closed the public hearing.

                         Planning and Zoning Commission Discussion: None

                         Planning and Zoning Commission moved to recommend approval of PZC 12-1-
                         075 for a sign variance from Section 5-4-13:1 to replace the face panels on two
                         existing nonconforming signs located at 3004 Reflection Drive, subject to the
                         condition that the existing red canopies on the two existing signs shall be
                         removed.

                         Motion by: Trowbridge                                            Approved
                         Seconded by: Gustin                                              (9 to 0)



D2.                      The petitioner requests to revoke the existing Planned Unit Development
PZC Case #12-1-022       (PUD), rezone the property from R1B (Medium Density Single-Family
Case Name                Residence District) to OCI (Office, Commercial, and Institutional District), and
FMC Dialysis Clinic      obtain approval of a preliminary/final plat of subdivision in order to construct an
                         addition and operate a medical clinic.

                         Ying Liu, Planning Services Team, gave an overview of the request.

                         Stephen E. Bolirquein, Land Focus Consulting, spoke on behalf of the
                         petitioner.
                             · Gave an overview of the request.

                         Chad Middendorf spoke on behalf of the petitioner:
                            · Anticipates that 10-12 employees will work on 12 stations in the clinic.
                            · Due to long stays of patients, each station can typically accommodate
                               two patients a day; therefore the total numbers of patients are low.
                            · A Certificate of Need has been obtained for the use.
                            · The clinic will typically open during normal business hours.

                         Planning and Zoning Commission inquired about:
                            · Whether a text amendment previously approved allows for medical
                                offices along Washington Street.
      Naperville Planning and Zoning Commission
      June 20, 2012
      Page 3 of 9

                             ·   The nature and operations of the proposed clinic.
                             ·   Whether staff received any correspondence from the neighboring
                                 property owners. Staff indicated no.

                         Public Testimony: None

                         Planning and Zoning Commission closed the public hearing.

                         Planning and Zoning Commission Discussion: None

                         Planning and Zoning Commission moved to recommend approval of PZC 12-1-
                         022 to revoke the existing Planned Unit Development (PUD), rezone the
                         property from R1B (Medium Density Single-Family Residence District) to OCI
                         (Office, Commercial, and Institutional District), and approve a preliminary/final
                         plat of subdivision in order to construct an addition and operate a medical clinic.

                         Motion by: Gustin                                               Approved
                         Seconded by: Messer                                             (9 to 0)



D3.                      The petitioner is requesting approval of Final PUD Plats, Final Subdivision
PZC Case #12-1-039       Plats, a conditional use for a hotel, a parking deviation, approval of a sign
Case Name                regulations package, and related deviations for the Water Street District - North
Water Street District    Phase/South Phase.
­ North Phase/
South Phase
                         Commissioner Bruno recused himself due to a conflict of interest.

                         Allison Laff, Planning Services Team, gave an overview of the request.

                         Kathy West, Attorney with Dommermuth, Brestal, Cobine & West, Ltd., spoke
                         on behalf of the petitioner:
                             · Reviewed the background of the petitioner, MP Water District, LLC.
                             · The proposed parking deck is enclosed by commercial buildings on three
                                sides with only one exposed façade.
                             · Site amenities are provided including a plaza, Riverwalk improvements,
                                and an upper level boardwalk.
                             · The current proposal is largely consistent with the 2010 proposal.
                             · Proposed changes to the 2007 PUD include inclusion of 117 Water
                                Street in the Loggia building, addition of a hotel, addition of a floor to
                                the hotel building, conversion of condos to apartments and an increase in
                                the number of residential units.
                             · The proposed hotel will be a Holiday Inn Express. A minimum of 130
                                rooms is required in order for the hotel to be economically feasible. The
                                height of the building is increased by one floor in order to accommodate
                                the 130 rooms that are necessary.
Naperville Planning and Zoning Commission
June 20, 2012
Page 4 of 9

                       ·   The 5th and 6th floors of the hotel building are set back 7' from the front
                           wall of the building.
                       ·   The traffic generation of the development is not significantly changed
                           from the 2007 proposal.
                       ·   The proposed Riverwalk improvement continues to the east of Main
                           Street.
                       ·   The parking deck itself is 70' tall, but the tower at the roof is 87' tall.

                   Mark Sullivan, Architect with Sullivan Goulette Wilson, spoke on behalf of the
                   petitioner:
                       · Reviewed the design intent and rationale for this project.
                       · A major consideration of the design is to engage pedestrian activities.
                       · The main tower element on the south side of Water Street links the south
                           building to the Riverwalk and the north side of Water Street.
                       · Has reached out to the community.
                       · The stone towers are incorporated in order to create a rhythm of the
                           different materials and break up the building façade.

                   Planning and Zoning Commission inquired about
                      · The number of required parking spaces for the commercial uses.
                      · Whether the code requirement for 1 parking space/room should be
                          adjusted to the industry standard for 0.6 parking spaces/room for hotels.
                          Staff indicated that each case should be reviewed on its own merits.
                      · Whether the parking variance is based on the specific type of hotel that
                          is being proposed. Staff indicated that the parking study utilized
                          comparable data specific to the size and type of the proposed hotel.
                      · Whether the proposed parking ratio of 1.5 spaces/unit would be still
                          applicable if the apartments were to be converted to condos. Staff
                          indicated that the code does not differentiate parking requirements for
                          residential rental vs. ownership. Staff indicated that if more parking
                          spaces are needed for the residential units, staff will work with the
                          petitioner to reserve more spaces in the parking deck.
                      · How the reserved parking spaces for the apartments/hotel would be
                          guaranteed.
                      · The total number of parking spaces as compared to previous proposals.
                      · Whether valet parking would be provided. The petitioner indicated yes,
                          most likely for the hotel and restaurants.
                      · Whether additional parking spaces can be added to the basement of the
                          garages.
                      · Whether staff has any concerns about changing the proposed condos to
                          apartments. Staff indicated that there is no concern regarding the
                          ownership structure of the residential units.
                      · How the development of this scale is consistent with the Water Street
                          Vision Statement, which stated that that taller structures shall have a
                          minimal impact on the surrounding area. Laff responded that the
                          development is mostly surrounded by non-residential uses and is lower
Naperville Planning and Zoning Commission
June 20, 2012
Page 5 of 9

                           in grade than the houses on Aurora Avenue, which mitigate the impact
                           of the development on surrounding properties.
                       ·   Whether the apartments are intended for college rental similar to Naper
                           Place. Laff clarified that the target market for the proposed apartments is
                           young couples and seniors. The units are larger than Naper Place and
                           also have designated parking spaces.
                       ·   Is concerned that the overhang balconies would increase the bulk of the
                           buildings in addition to the increased height.
                       ·   Is concerned about the south elevation of the garage which appears
                           towering over the properties along Aurora Avenue and will be visible
                           from a distance.
                       ·   What are the building materials for the south elevation of the garage.
                           The petitioner indicated that the south elevation will utilize precast
                           concrete products (form liners).
                       ·   Is concerned about the height of the hotel as viewed from the Riverwalk,
                           which sits lower. The petitioner responded that people would not able to
                           see the hotel from the Riverwalk.
                       ·   Whether a rooftop garden would be included to soften the look of the
                           hotel building.
                       ·   Whether the 90' tower on the hotel building can be lowered. The
                           petitioner responded that the tower will be the demarcation for this
                           development and cannot be lowered.
                       ·   How far the rooftop lounge will be setback from the cornice of the 6th
                           floor of the hotel building. The petitioner indicated that the rooftop
                           lounge will be set 15' back from the front wall of the 6th floor.
                       ·   The design of the parapet/guardrail for the rooftop dining area.
                       ·   Why the cornice of the 4th floor of hotel building didn't follow the
                           cornice line of the Northern Trust Building. The petitioner indicated that
                           the 4th floor cornice line of the proposed building is lower than the
                           Northern Trust Building and the 4th floor cornice line is carried
                           throughout the Water Street development.
                       ·   Whether all of ground floor uses (with exception of the office building)
                           are retail/restaurants.
                       ·   Whether the proposed brick color would match the Northern Trust
                           Building.
                       ·   Is concerned that installing an additional traffic light at Aurora &
                           Webster would result in more traffic back-up on Washington Street.
                       ·   Traffic impact of the project. Andy Hynes, Engineering Services Team,
                           indicated that a comprehensive traffic study (SDTMS) was completed
                           for the greater area in the vicinity of the subject property. The
                           development represents some changes to the traffic study; however, the
                           changes are not significant enough to change the result of the study.
                       ·   How vehicles will enter and exit the parking deck and the functions of
                           the alley. Bryan Rieger, Engineer with V3 Companies of IL spoke on
                           behalf of the petitioner and reviewed traffic movements associated with
                           the garage.
Naperville Planning and Zoning Commission
June 20, 2012
Page 6 of 9

                       ·   The location of the loading zones in the development.
                       ·   Whether it is possible to have a pedestrian bridge or underpass
                           connecting to Naper Settlement.
                       ·   Whether pedestrians can access the elevators through the alley.
                       ·   The location of the bike racks.
                       ·   What is the vision for the signage proposal along Riverwalk. How will
                           the canopies be lit? Bruno Bottarelli, with Marquette Companies,
                           reviewed the signage proposal for the Riverwalk including awning signs,
                           blade signs, and wall signs. The awnings will be lit by shepherd crook
                           external lights.

                   Public Testimony:

                   Dan Avjean, a Naperville resident, spoke in support of the development:
                      · The project completes the Riverwalk.

                   Kathy Benson, a Naperville resident, spoke against the development:
                      · Recognizes that the hotel is a highly desirable use.
                      · Is concerned about the density of the development and the height of the
                         buildings.
                      · An updated shadow study should be done to reflect the increased height.
                      · Appreciates the increased alley width, but feels the width is still not
                         sufficient.
                      · The proposed parking ratio for the hotel (0.6 spaces/room) would be
                         insufficient if taking the restaurant/bar and employee parking into
                         consideration.
                      · Valet parking should not use parking spaces designated for the hotel.
                      · Requests a comparison of the available public parking spaces in the
                         original plans and the current plans.

                   Bob Fischer, representing the Naperville Homeowners Confederation, spoke
                   against the development:
                      · The development is far too dense.
                      · Is concerned about traffic congestion resulting from the development
                           and feels that converting 30 condos to 60 apartments would only amplify
                           the traffic problem.
                      · The tall buildings as proposed will canyonize Water Street and intrude
                           upon the Riverwalk.
                      · The overhang canopies are not appropriate along the Riverwalk.
                      · The bulk of the hotel building has been significantly increased.
                      · The proposed box sign on the hotel tower is neither appropriate nor
                           necessary.
                      · Doesn't agree with the parking variances.
                      · Supports the elimination of the sky bridge and widening of the alley.
                      · Will there be sufficient revenue generation from the TIF.
                      · This development is not beneficial to the city.
Naperville Planning and Zoning Commission
June 20, 2012
Page 7 of 9


                   Barb Enwright, a Naperville resident, spoke:
                      · How the noise generated from the rooftop bar/restaurant would impact
                         the residential area south of Aurora.
                      · Requests restricting valet parking from the neighborhood streets.

                   Thom Higgins, a Naperville resident, spoke against the development:
                      · Is against narrowing the right-of-way from 66' to 57'.
                      · Compares the proposed sidewalks along Water Street to the sidewalk in
                         front of the Gap store.
                      · Believes that pedestrian experience will be compromised with the
                         reduced right-of-way width.

                   Anissa Olley, a Naperville resident, spoke against the development:
                      · The 2010 proposal was never approved by the City Council. Therefore,
                          the commission should compare the 2012 proposal with the 2007
                          proposal.

                   Dick Furstenau, a Naperville resident, spoke against the development:
                      · Believes that Water Street is not an appropriate location for a hotel.
                      · Believes that apartments need 2 parking spaces per unit.
                      · As part of the TIF, the Township parking lot will be removed and some
                          spaces will be reserved in the parking deck close to the Township
                          building. The petitioner and staff clarified there were a lot of discussion
                          regarding the Township parking lot. However, nothing has been
                          finalized.
                      · Some of the upper level setbacks were removed in the current proposal.
                      · Is concerned with the overhanging balconies along the Riverwalk and
                          how they will impact the Riverwalk aesthetically.
                      · Suggests a height comparison drawing to illustrate the increased heights
                          in the current proposal.

                   Planning and Zoning Commission inquired about
                      · How to prevent residents and hotel guests from parking in the public
                          spaces in the garage. Staff indicated overnight parking is not permitted
                          in existing city decks.
                      · Noted that the Township employees will be able to utilize the parking
                          deck as well.
                      · Whether there would be limitation for 3-hour parking in the deck.
                      · How parking would be handled if the hotel is booked. The petitioner
                          indicated that they anticipate that there will be excess parking for the
                          apartments, which will serve as overflow parking for the hotel.
                      · Age brackets and parking ratio of the River Place development. Nick
                          Ryan, with Marquette Companies, indicated that the River Place
                          development has a parking ratio of 1.01 spaces per unit.
                      · Whether there will be any banquet space in the hotel. The petitioner
     Naperville Planning and Zoning Commission
     June 20, 2012
     Page 8 of 9

                                indicated there will be meeting rooms but no banquet facility.
                            ·   Whether truck traffic will utilize the alley. The petitioner indicated no.
                            ·   A summary of the height changes to the buildings. The petitioner
                                indicated that the height of the Loggia and Theatre buildings have not
                                changed from the 2007 plan. The hotel building has increased from 83'
                                to 90'. The height of the garage has increased slightly.
                            ·   Whether a variance is required for the box sign of the hotel. Staff
                                indicated that a variance might be needed for the size and the location of
                                the sign.
                            ·   Suggests red brick to serve as the background of the black box sign.

                        Planning and Zoning Commission Discussion: None

                        Planning and Zoning Commission moved to continue the case to July 18, 2012.
                           · A summary of the signage variances including the size for each of the
                               known sign.
                           · A rendering of the Riverwalk signage.
                           · A summary of the calculations and the number of parking spaces that
                               will be available to the public from outside of the Water Street overall
                               development as well as a comparison of the numbers to the 2007
                               proposal.
                           · Information about the TIF agreement as it relates to parking.
                           · A rendering looking down Water Street to illustrate the overhang
                               balconies, the canyon effect, and cornice height.
                           · Revised FAR taking the balconies into consideration.
                           · Requests the petitioner to consider lowering the height of the tower.

D4.                     The petitioner requests approval of a variance from Section 6-6B-7 (R1B
PZC Case #12-1-070      Medium Density Single-Family Residence District: Yard Requirements) and
1150 Muirhead Ave.      Section 6-9-2:4.2 (Off-Street Parking Facilities) of the Municipal Code to allow
                        construction of a bus drop-off facility in the required 30' front yard setback for
                        the property.

                        Ying Liu, Planning Services Team, gave an overview of the request

                        Planning and Zoning Commission inquired about
                           · The hardship of the case. Staff indicated that the variance is requested
                               based on the hardship that there is not a good location behind the 30'
                               setback line to accommodate a bus drop-off lane.
                           · Safety is also a consideration to support the variance.

                        Public Testimony: None

                        Planning and Zoning Commission closed the public hearing.

                        Planning and Zoning Commission Discussion: None
     Naperville Planning and Zoning Commission
     June 20, 2012
     Page 9 of 9

                        Planning and Zoning Commission moved to recommend approval of PZC 12-1-
                        070 for a variance from Section 6-6B-7 (R1B Medium Density Single-Family
                        Residence District: Yard Requirements) and Section 6-9-2:4.2 (Off-Street
                        Parking Facilities) of the Municipal Code to allow construction of a bus drop-off
                        facility in the required 30' front yard setback for the property.

                        Motion by: Meyer                                               Approved
                        Seconded by: Williams                                          (9 to 0)




E. Reports and
Recommendations

F. Correspondence

G. New Business

H. Adjournment                                                                               10: 40 p.m.
                    PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
                             AGENDA ITEM
PZC CASE:             12-1-050                 AGENDA DATE:      7/5/2012
                                                                    /2012
SUBJECT:              Health Care Center at Monarch Landing
                      Petitioner: Naperville Senior Care, LLC, 2255 Monarch Drive,
                      Naperville, IL 60563

LOCATION:             Northeast corner of Route 59 and Ferry Road with a common street
                      address of 2255 Monarch Drive

  Correspondence          New Business             Old Business          Public Hearing

SYNOPSIS:
The petitioner requests approval of a preliminary plat of subdivision, a conditional use for a
nursing home in OCI (Office, Commercial and Institutional District), a major change to the
Monarch Landing Planned Unit Development (PUD)  (PUD), and a preliminary PUD plat for Lot 1B in
order to develop an assisted living and nursing facility on Lot 1B of Monarch Landing.

PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION PREVIOUSLY
                                          IOUSLY TAKEN:
                                                 TAKEN
Date           Item No.     Action
6/6/2012       D5           The Commission opened the public hearing, requested additional
                            information and continued the case to July 5, 2012.

ACTION REQUESTED/RECOMMENDED
                       ED/RECOMMENDED THIS MEETING  MEETING:
Close the public hearing and recommend approval of the case.

PREPARED BY:          Ying Liu, AICP, Planning Services Team

BACKGROUND:
The petitioner,, Naperville Senior Care, LLC., intends to subdivide Lot 1 of Monarch Landing
into two lots and develop an assisted living and nursing facility
                                                          facility,
                                                                  , known as Health Care Center,
on the newly created Lot 1B. The proposed facility would include 124 beds, 61 surface parking
spaces, and be served by two points of access: a right
                                                 right-in/right-out
                                                                 out driveway onto Route 59, and
                                                                                             an
access from Ferry Road through the adjacent Monarch Landing campus.

PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION:
The Planning and Zoning Commission opened the public hearing to consider the petitioner's
request on June 6, 2012. No members of the public pr        provided
                                                              ovided testimony. The Planning and
Zoning Commission expressed concerns about the limited access for the proposed facility, which
would restrict exiting traffic of the site from traveling southbound on Route 59. The commission
Health Care Center at Monarch Landing (PZC 12-1-050)
July 5, 2012
Page 2 of 3

continued the case to July 5, 2012 and requested the following additional information to be
provided:
   1. A copy of the traffic study.
   2. An overall site plan to include the new building and the rest of the PUD.
   3. The petitioner to investigate alternatives to improve internal circulation of the site to
       allow travelers (patients, staff, residents, and emergency vehicles) to utilize the Ferry
       Road entrance.
   4. Information about way finding signage.

PLANNING SERVICES TEAM REVIEW:
Staff has included additional information per the Planning and Zoning Commission's requests,
which are summarized below.

1. A copy of the traffic study is included in Attachment 1 of this staff report.

2. An overall site plan showing the proposed Health Care Center in the context of the existing
   improvements in Monarch Landing is included in Attachment 2 of this staff report.

3. The petitioner has submitted a memorandum (Attachment 3) addressing the Planning and
   Zoning Commission's concerns regarding site access. The memorandum noted the
   following:
       o Patients of the Health Care Center will reside on the site and will not generate any
          outpatient traffic.
       o Employees of the Health Care Center will enter and exit through the existing Ferry
          Road entrance and will park in the garage.
       o Given the classification of Route 59 as a Strategic Regional Arterial, a full access for
          the proposed development is not feasible. The proposed right-in/right-out access on
          Route 59 affords an additional point of access for visitors and emergency vehicles,
          which was not available in the original plan approved in 2005.
       o Since Monarch Landing is a gated community, vehicles would be permitted to enter
          the Health Care Center parking lot from Monarch Landing through a one-way drive
          aisle, but they would not be permitted to return through the Monarch Landing
          property. Access would be controlled by an unmanned gate. However, the one-way
          drive aisle (20' wide) is designed to accommodate two-way emergency ingress/egress
          and the petitioner will work with the Fire Department to design and install an
          Emergency Vehicle Preemption (EVP) system to allow two-way emergency vehicle
          access through the unmanned gate.
       o It is anticipated that the majority of the patients in the Health Care Center would be
          existing Monarch Landing residents. Therefore, the majority of the visitors are
          expected to come from the independent living component of the Monarch Landing
          campus. The remainder of visitors may enter the site through either the Route 59
          entrance or the Ferry Road entrance, but may only exit through the Route 59 entrance
          to travel north. Based on the low intensity of visitor traffic associated with the
          proposed facility, only a small number of visitors (estimated about 10 visitors per
          day) may have to turn around at the Butterfield Road traffic light to travel south.
Health Care Center at Monarch Landing (PZC 12-1-050)
July 5, 2012
Page 3 of 3

    The City's Engineering Department supports the proposed site layout and access. The City's
    Fire Department has also approved the proposed site access subject to the condition that
    emergency vehicles shall have unrestrained access throughout the Monarch Landing campus
    and that the final design of the EVP system shall be worked out in a manner acceptable to the
    Fire Department.

4. As the petitioner is only seeking preliminary approval for the proposed Health Care Center,
   information regarding way-finding signage is not available at this time. However, the
   petitioner is committed to work with staff during the final PUD process to design appropriate
   way-finding signage to address the unique access restrictions of the site.

Conditions of Approval
To address the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Fire Department's concerns regarding
access and way-finding signage, staff recommends the following conditions of approval:
   · The petitioner shall design and install an EVP system to allow two-way emergency
       vehicle access through the one-way drive aisle. The design of such system shall be
       subject to the Fire Department's approval at the time of final PUD approval for Lot 1B.
   · The petitioner shall submit a way-finding signage packet for staff's review and approval
       at the time of final PUD approval for Lot 1B.

ACTION REQUESTED:
Close the public hearing and recommend approval of the case.

ATTACHMENTS:
1. Health Care Center at Monarch Landing ­ Traffic Study ­ PZC 12-1-050
2. Health Care Center at Monarch Landing ­ Overall Site Plan ­ PZC 12-1-050
3. Health Care Center at Monarch Landing ­ Traffic Assessment Memorandum ­ PZC 12-1-
   050
4. Health Care Center at Monarch Landing ­ Staff Memo from June 6, 2012 PZC Meeting ­
   PZC 12-1-050
5. Health Care Center at Monarch Landing ­ June 6, 2012 PZC Minutes ­ PZC 12-1-050
Monarch Landing              Healthcare Center
             NAPERVILLE, ILLINOIS
               DUPAGE COUNTY




        TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
                  PREPARED FOR:
           Senior Care Development, LLC
         500 Mamaroneck Avenue, Suite 406
                Harrison, NY 10528

                   PREPARED BY:




                   V3 Companies
                7325 Janes Avenue
               Woodridge, Illinois 60517

             V3 Project No. 03099.TRAF
       Contact: Michael J. Rechtorik, P.E., PTOE

                    April 13, 2012
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                              MONARCH LANDING              HEALTHCARE CENTER


                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS


I.     INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................1

II.    PROJECT CONDITIONS ...........................................................................................4
       Land Uses
       Roadway System
       Traffic Volumes
       Proposed Development

III.   TRAFFIC FORECASTS .............................................................................................9
       Project Traffic Volumes
       Background Traffic Volumes
       Future Traffic Volumes

IV.    TRAFFIC ANALYSIS ...............................................................................................14
       Capacity Analysis

V.     CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................16


                                                    TABLES

TABLE 1       TRIP GENERATION ........................................................................................ 9
TABLE 2       CAPACITY ANALYSIS PEAK HOUR LOS SUMMARY ...............................16




                                                          i
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                              MONARCH LANDING                HEALTHCARE CENTER


                           TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.)


                                                 FIGURES

FIGURE 1   SITE LOCATION MAP............................................................................................ 2
FIGURE 2   PROPOSED SITE PLAN........................................................................................ 3
FIGURE 3   LAND USES............................................................................................................ 5
FIGURE 4   EXISTING LANE CONFIGURATIONS .................................................................. 6
FIGURE 5   EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES............................................................................ 8
FIGURE 6   PROJECT TRAFFIC VOLUMES ......................................................................... 10
FIGURE 7   BACKGROUND TRAFFIC VOLUMES................................................................ 12
FIGURE 8   FUTURE TRAFFIC VOLUMES............................................................................ 13
FIGURE 9   FUTURE LANE CONFIGURATIONS .................................................................. 17

                                              APPENDICES

APPENDIX A EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES
APPENDIX B CAPACITY ANALYSIS WORKSHEETS (EXISTING)
APPENDIX C CAPACITY ANALYSIS WORKSHEETS (FUTURE)




                                                        ii
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                   MONARCH LANDING        HEALTHCARE CENTER


I.       INTRODUCTION

Senior Care Development, LLC is planning to develop a vacant property adjacent to the Monarch
Landing retirement community located on the northeast corner of Illinois Route 59 (IL 59) and
Ferry Road in Naperville, Illinois. A site location map is included as Figure 1. The project site is
approximately 6.5 acres and the development will consist of an assisted living/memory care and
skilled nursing facilities with a total of 124 beds and 61 parking spaces. The conceptual site plan
is provided in Figure 2.

Access to the project site will be provided at two locations. A new right-in/right-out access is
proposed on IL 59. In addition, a northbound only (one-way) roadway is proposed from an
existing Monarch Landing internal roadway. As shown in the site plan, this roadway will provide
access to the site from Ferry Road. All vehicles will be required to exit the site on IL 59.

The purpose of this report is to evaluate the anticipated traffic impacts from the proposed project.
Traffic estimates were determined for the year 2018, which is five years beyond the anticipated
build-out of 2013. The study area consisted of the following existing intersections:
     ·   IL 59 and Ferry Road
     ·   Ferry Road and Monarch Drive/City Gate Lane
     ·   Ferry Road and Comfort Drive/Corporate Lane

This report includes a description of existing conditions, data collection and analysis, evaluation of
data, and conclusions and recommendations.




                                                  1
Figure 1 - Site Location Map.dgn 4/5/2012 1:51:07 PM
Figure 2 - Site Plan.dgn 4/6/2012 8:30:29 AM
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                  MONARCH LANDING        HEALTHCARE CENTER


II.    PROJECT CONDITIONS

Land Uses

A variety of land uses exist near the project site which include residential, commercial,
warehouses, and office. As previously mentioned, the site is adjacent to the Monarch Landing
retirement community. Commercial property exists directly to the west of the site along the west
side of IL 59. Office and commercial development is located directly south of the site south of
Ferry Road. The land uses and locations are presented in Figure 3.

Roadway System

The characteristics of the roadways in the vicinity of the site are presented below. The existing
lane configurations are illustrated in Figure 4.

Ferry Road is a four-lane divided east-west roadway under DuPage County s jurisdiction and is
located south of the site. It has two lanes in each direction and parking is prohibited. At the
intersections with Monarch Drive/City Gate Lane and Comfort Drive/Corporate Lane, there are
exclusive eastbound and westbound left-turn lanes. Both of these intersections are unsignalized.
Curb and gutter and a sidewalk/path are located along the north and south sides of the roadway.
The posted speed limit is 45 mph in the vicinity of the site.

IL 59 is a four-lane divided north-south roadway located to the west of the site. It is under the
Illinois Department of Transportation s (IDOT) jurisdiction and is classified as a Strategic Regional
Arterial (SRA). It has two-lanes in each direction, carries a large volume of traffic through the
Naperville/Warrenville area, and provides a north-south connection between I-88 and I-90. At the
signalized intersection with Ferry Road, all approaches have exclusive left and right turn lanes.
There is a combination of curb and gutter and shoulders in the vicinity of the site. There is
sidewalk on the east side of IL 59 with pedestrian crossings on all legs of the Ferry Road
intersection. The posted speed limit is 45 mph.

Monarch Drive/City Gate Lane are primarily access drives to existing developments. Monarch
Drive is currently a gated road and provides access to the Monarch Landing retirement community.
It has two outbound lanes (a shared through/left-turn lane and an exclusive right-turn lane) at the
approach to Ferry Road. City Gate Lane provides access to the office and retail developments
south of Ferry Road and to the east of IL 59. It has an exclusive left-turn lane and a shared
through/right-turn lane at the approach to Ferry Road.

Comfort Drive/Corporate Lane are also primarily access drives to surrounding developments.
Comfort Drive provides access to the office developments south of Ferry Road. It has three
outbound lanes (exclusive left-turn, through, and right-turn lanes) at the approach to Ferry Road.
Corporate Drive is a two-lane undivided road that provides access to the office and warehouse
developments north or Ferry Road. At the approach to Ferry Road, there is an exclusive left-turn
lane and a shared through/right-turn lane.




                                                 4
Figure 3 - Land Uses.dgn 4/6/2012 10:37:22 AM
Figure 4 - Existing Lane Configurations.dgn 4/13/2012 12:02:38 PM
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                 MONARCH LANDING        HEALTHCARE CENTER


Traffic Volumes

To assist in the evaluation of the traffic impacts on the roadway system resulting from the
proposed development, existing intersection traffic volumes were collected during the times and
dates listed below:
   ·   IL 59 and Ferry Road
           Tuesday (4/3/2012)    7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
           Tuesday (4/3/2012)    4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
   ·   Ferry Road and Monarch Drive/City Gate Lane
          Wednesday (4/4/2012) 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
          Wednesday (4/4/2012) 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.

Traffic counts, dated 5/19/2010, at the intersection of Ferry Road and Comfort Drive/Corporate
Lane were provided by the City of Naperville for use in the study. The traffic volumes were
adjusted to reflect year 2012 conditions.

The weekday a.m. and weekday p.m. peak hours occurred between 7:15 a.m. 8:15 a.m. and
4:30 p.m. 5:30 p.m., respectively. The existing peak hour traffic volumes are illustrated in Figure
5. A summary of the traffic volumes in fifteen minute increments are provided in Appendix A.

Proposed Development

Land Use Development

There are not any known proposed land development projects in the vicinity of the site that will
impact the study area intersections. However, it is expected that development will occur in this
area in the future given the amount of undeveloped land.

Roadway Improvements

IDOT currently has a roadway improvement project planned for IL 59 from Aurora Avenue to Ferry
Road including the interchange at I-88. IL 59 will be widened to three lanes in each direction and
it will also include intersection improvements. Construction is currently planned for 2012-2013.
For purposes of this analysis, the existing geometries at the intersection of IL 59 and Ferry Road
were utilized.




                                                7
Figure 5 - Existing Traffic Volumes.dgn 4/13/2012 2:31:50 PM
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                       MONARCH LANDING       HEALTHCARE CENTER


III.      TRAFFIC FORECASTS

Project Traffic Volumes

Trip Generation

As stated earlier, the proposed project will consist of an assisted living/memory care and skilled
nursing facilities with a total of 124 beds. Project traffic for the site was estimated using the
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation, 8th Edition. The following category
was used to determine project traffic:

       Assisted Living (254) Assisted living complexes are residential settings that provide either
       routine general protective oversight or assistance with activities necessary for independent
       living to mentally or physically limited persons. They commonly have separate living
       quarters for residents, and services include dining, housekeeping, social and physical
       activities, medication administration and transportation. Alzheimer s and ALS care are
       commonly offered by these facilities, though the living quarters for these patients may be
       located separately from the other residents. Assisted care commonly bridges the gap
       between independent living and nursing homes.

Provided in Table 1 is the trip generation data.

                                                TABLE 1
                                           TRIP GENERATION

                     Land Use                       Size          Weekday AM         Weekday PM
                                                                   Peak Hour          Peak Hour
                                                                 Enter    Exit      Enter    Exit
   Assisted Living - 254                           124 Beds       15       6         19       17


The trip rates in the Trip Generation for assisted living and skilled nursing facilities land uses were
comparable. To be conservative, the higher trip rate land use was used for the entire analysis
which in this case is assisted living.

Trip Distribution and Assignment

The direction from which traffic will approach and depart a site is a function of numerous variables,
including location of residences, location of employment centers, location of commercial/retail
centers, available roadway systems, location and number of access points, and levels of
congestion on the adjacent road systems.

The directional distribution of project traffic determined for this study was based on existing travel
patterns in the area. Based on information received from Senior Care Development, LLC, access
to the site from Monarch Drive will also be allowed through the gated entrance. The directional
distribution and assignment of project traffic is illustrated in Figure 6.



                                                    9
Figure 6 - Project Traffic Volumes.dgn 4/13/2012 2:38:27 PM
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                 MONARCH LANDING        HEALTHCARE CENTER


Background Traffic Volumes

Background traffic volumes were estimated for the year 2018, which is five years beyond the
anticipated build-out of 2013. These volumes account for future (non-project related) growth in the
area. A conservative growth rate of 1.0% per year was applied to the existing traffic volumes.
The background traffic volumes are illustrated in Figure 7.

Future Traffic Volumes

To obtain future year 2018 traffic volumes, the project traffic volumes were added to the
background traffic volumes. Figure 8 depicts the future traffic volumes for the year 2018.




                                                11
Figure 7 - Background Traffic Volumes.dgn 4/13/2012 2:47:57 PM
Figure 8 - Future Traffic Volumes.dgn 4/13/2012 2:58:41 PM
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                    MONARCH LANDING        HEALTHCARE CENTER


IV.       TRAFFIC ANALYSIS

Capacity Analysis

The operation of a facility is based on level of service (LOS) calculations using analytical methods
defined in the Transportation Research Board s Highway Capacity Manual, 2000 Edition. The
concept of LOS is defined as a qualitative measure describing operational conditions within a
traffic stream and the perception of motorists. There are six LOS letter designations, from A to F,
with LOS A representing the best operating conditions and LOS F the worst. In general, the
various LOS are defined as follows:
      ·   LOS A represents free flow. Individual users are virtually unaffected by the presence of
          others in the traffic stream. Freedom to select desired speeds and to maneuver within the
          traffic stream is extremely high. The general level of comfort and convenience provided to
          the motorist, passenger, or pedestrian is excellent.
      ·   LOS B is in the range of stable flow, but the presence of other users in the traffic stream
          begins to be noticeable. Freedom to select desired speed is relatively unaffected, but
          there is a slight decline in the freedom to maneuver within the traffic stream from LOS A.
          The level of comfort and convenience provided is somewhat less than at LOS A, because
          the presence of others in the traffic stream begins to affect individual behavior.
      ·   LOS C is in the range of stable flow, but marks the beginning of the range of flow in which
          the operation of individual users becomes significantly affected by interactions with others
          in the traffic stream. The selection of speed is now affected by the presence of others, and
          maneuvering within the traffic stream requires vigilance on the part of the user. The
          general level of comfort and convenience declines at this level.
      ·   LOS D represents high-density, but stable flow. Speed and freedom to maneuver are
          restricted and the driver or pedestrian experiences a generally poor level of comfort and
          convenience. Small increases in traffic flow will generally cause operational problems at
          this level.
      ·   LOS E represents operating conditions at or near the capacity level. All speeds are
          reduced to a low, but relatively uniform value. Freedom to maneuver within the traffic
          stream is difficult, and it is generally accomplished by forcing a vehicle or pedestrian to
          "give way" to accommodate such maneuvers. Comfort and convenience levels are poor,
          and driver or pedestrian frustration is generally high. Operations at this level are usually
          unstable, because small increases in flow or minor disturbances within the traffic stream
          will cause breakdowns.
      ·   LOS F is used to define forced or breakdown flow. This condition exists wherever the
          amount of traffic approaching a point exceeds the amount, which can traverse the point.
          Queues form behind such locations. Operations within the queue are characterized by
          stop-and-go waves, and they are extremely unstable. Vehicles may progress at
          reasonable speeds for several hundred feet or more, and then be required to stop in a
          cyclic fashion. LOS F is used to describe the operating conditions within the queue, as well
          as the point of breakdown. It should be noted, however, that in many cases operating
          conditions of vehicles or pedestrians discharged from the queue may be quite good.
          Nevertheless, it is the point at which arrival flow exceeds discharge flow, which causes the
          queue to form.

                                                   14
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                   MONARCH LANDING        HEALTHCARE CENTER



The LOS of an intersection is based on the average control delay per vehicle. For a signalized
intersection, the delay is calculated for each lane group and then aggregated for each approach
and for the intersection as a whole. Generally, the LOS is reported for the intersection as a whole.
For an unsignalized intersection, the delay is only calculated and reported for each minor
movement. An overall intersection LOS is not calculated.

There are different LOS criteria for signalized and unsignalized intersections primarily due to driver
perceptions of transportation facilities. The perception is that a signalized intersection is expected
to carry higher traffic volumes and experience a greater average delay than an unsignalized
intersection. The LOS criteria for signalized and unsignalized intersections are provided below.

                                          Average Control Delay (sec/veh)
                        LOS             Signalized             Unsignalized
                         A                  10.0                    10.0
                         B           > 10.0 and 20.0        > 10.0 and 15.0
                         C           > 20.0 and 35.0        > 15.0 and 25.0
                         D           > 35.0 and 55.0        > 25.0 and 35.0
                         E           > 55.0 and 80.0        > 35.0 and 50.0
                         F                > 80.0                  > 50.0

Typically, various state and local governments adopt standards varying between LOS C and LOS
E, depending on the area s size and roadway characteristics. Based on our past experience in the
City of Naperville and DuPage County, a LOS D or better has been the accepted operating
standards. For purposes of this analysis, a LOS D has been assumed to be the threshold.

A capacity analysis was performed for the existing and future traffic conditions using the Highway
Capacity Software (HCS+). Existing signal timings were obtained from the field. LOS evaluations
were performed at the following study intersections:
   ·   IL 59 and Ferry Road
   ·   Ferry Road and Monarch Drive/City Gate Lane
   ·   Ferry Road and Comfort Drive/Corporate Lane
   ·   IL 59 and Project Driveway

Reported in Table 2 are the weekday a.m. and weekday p.m. peak hour capacity analysis results.
Supporting analysis worksheets from HCS+ for the existing and future traffic conditions are
provided in Appendices B and C, respectively.




                                                 15
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY                                        MONARCH LANDING        HEALTHCARE CENTER

                                                  TABLE 2
                                           PEAK HOUR LOS SUMMARY


                                                            Existing                     Future

             Intersection                Approach   Weekday AM    Weekday PM    Weekday AM    Weekday PM
                                                     Peak Hour     Peak Hour     Peak Hour     Peak Hour
                                                    LOS Delay     LOS Delay     LOS Delay     LOS Delay
Ferry Road &                               EB        D     45.4    D     37.0    D     48.3    D     38.6
Illinois Route 59                          WB        C     31.0    D     52.2    C     31.7    E     59.0
                                           NB        C     27.3    C     30.3    C     30.5    D     47.7
                                           SB        C     29.4    C     33.4    D     37.2    D     41.1
Ferry Road &                               NB        D     25.8    C     17.6    D     28.5    C     19.5
Monarch Drive / City Gate Lane *           SB        C     18.5    C     17.7    C     19.9    C     19.1
Ferry Road &                               NB        C     23.2    C     19.9    D     28.7    C     22.1
Corporate Lane / Comfort Drive *           SB        C     15.3    C     21.5    C     18.3    C     23.5
Project Driveway & Illinois Route 59 *     WB                                    B     12.7    B     14.4
*Unsignalized Intersection

A review of Table 2 indicates that all intersection approaches operate at a LOS D or better under
existing and future traffic conditions except for the westbound approach at IL 59 and Ferry during
the p.m. peak hour (future conditions only). Post development, the LOS for these intersections will
be similar to existing conditions. The increase in delay is mainly attributed to the background
(non-project) traffic projected for the year 2018. Monarch Landing Healthcare Center accounts for
less than a half percent of the total traffic traveling through the intersection of IL 59 and Ferry
Road.


V.      CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

This study analyzed the traffic impacts for the proposed development consisting of an assisted
living/memory care and skilled nursing facilities with a total of 124 beds. A new right-in/right-out
access is proposed on IL 59. A capacity analysis was performed for the existing and future traffic
conditions for the weekday a.m. and weekday p.m. peak hours. Traffic was estimated to the year
2018, which is five years beyond the anticipated community build-out of 2013.

Based on the results of the traffic analysis, the Monarch Landing Healthcare Center will add
minimal traffic to the surrounding roadway system. The future lane configurations and
recommended traffic control for the study area intersections are provided in Figure 9.




                                                       16
Figure 9 - Future Lane Configurations.dgn 4/13/2012 3:06:56 PM
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY         MONARCH LANDING   HEALTHCARE CENTER




                      APPENDIX A
               EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                             V3 Companies
                                                                              7325 Janes Avenue
Project: Monarch Landing                                                      Woodridge, IL 60517                                                     File Name       : IL 59 - Ferry - AM
Location: Naperville, IL                                                                                                                              Site Code       : 00001111
Weather: Dry                                                                                                                                          Start Date      : 4/3/2012
Counted by: V3                                                                                                                                        Page No         :1


                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Single Unit Trucks - Trailer Trucks
                                IL 59                                IL 59                                    Ferry Rd                              Ferry Rd
                             Northbound                           Southbound                                 Eastbound                             Westbound
                                               App.                                    App.                                  App.                                        App.        Int.
    Start Time     LT     TH      RT    Peds            LT      TH     RT Peds                    LT     TH       RT Peds             LT     TH       RT    Peds
                                               Total                                   Total                                 Total                                       Total     Total
     07:00 AM      25     215     36       0    276     71     195       7      0       273       21    123        17    0    161     17     26        28        0         71       781
     07:15 AM      34     199     29       0    262     76     235     13       0       324       36    176        12    0    224     13     40        46        0         99       909
     07:30 AM      45     223     39       0    307     81     261     14       0       356       33    184        13    0    230     31     51        54        0        136      1029
     07:45 AM      51     220     51       0    322     96     239     16       0       351       40    206        17    0    263     28     57        34        0        119      1055
         Total    155     857    155       0   1167    324     930     50       0      1304      130    689        59    0    878     89    174       162        0        425      3774

     08:00 AM      23     225     43       0    291     75    266      13       0      354      24     181      19      0     224     24     27        36        0         87       956
     08:15 AM      36     224     41       0    301     80    235      14       1      330      22     153      15      1     191     19     28        25        1         73       895
     08:30 AM      30     211     34       0    275     75    219      12       0      306      17     164      33      0     214     11     39        29        0         79       874
     08:45 AM      29     209     33       0    271     91    212      12       0      315       9     126      18      1     154     16     19        35        0         70       810
         Total    118     869    151       0   1138    321    932      51       1     1305      72     624      85      2     783     70    113       125        1        309      3535

   Grand Total     273   1726     306      0   2305    645    1862    101       1     2609      202   1313    144       2    1661     159   287       287         1       734      7309
     Apprch %     11.8    74.9   13.3      0           24.7   71.4     3.9      0              12.2     79     8.7    0.1            21.7   39.1     39.1       0.1
        Total %    3.7    23.6    4.2      0    31.5    8.8   25.5     1.4      0     35.7      2.8     18       2      0    22.7     2.2    3.9      3.9         0        10
           Cars    251   1557     291      0   2099    624    1679     84       1     2388      181   1292    117       2    1592     147   278       278         1       704      6783
        % Cars    91.9    90.2   95.1      0    91.1   96.7   90.2    83.2    100     91.5     89.6   98.4    81.2    100    95.8    92.5   96.9     96.9      100        95.9      92.8
    Single Unit
                    7      37      5       0     49     18      51      8       0        77     12      13       7      0      32      5      6         9        0          20      178
         Trucks
 % Single Unit
                   2.6    2.1     1.6      0    2.1     2.8    2.7     7.9      0         3     5.9      1     4.9      0     1.9     3.1    2.1      3.1        0         2.7       2.4
         Trucks
  Semi-Trailer
                   15     132     10       0    157      3    132       9       0      144       9       8      20      0      37      7      3         0        0          10      348
         Trucks
       % Semi-
                   5.5    7.6     3.3      0    6.8     0.5    7.1     8.9      0       5.5     4.5    0.6    13.9      0     2.2     4.4     1         0        0         1.4       4.8
 Trailer Trucks
                                                                              V3 Companies
                                                                               7325 Janes Avenue
Project: Monarch Landing                                                       Woodridge, IL 60517                                                      File Name       : IL 59 - Ferry - PM
Location: Naperville, IL                                                                                                                                Site Code       : 00002222
Weather: Dry                                                                                                                                            Start Date      : 4/3/2012
Counted by: V3                                                                                                                                          Page No         :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Single Unit Trucks - Trailer Trucks
                                IL 59                                 IL 59                                    Ferry Rd                               Ferry Rd
                             Northbound                            Southbound                                 Eastbound                              Westbound
                                                App.                                    App.                                  App.                                         App.        Int.
    Start Time     LT     TH      RT    Peds             LT      TH     RT Peds                    LT     TH       RT Peds             LT     TH        RT    Peds
                                                Total                                   Total                                 Total                                        Total     Total
     04:00 PM      44     251     15       0     310     35     215     19       0       269       35      52       21    0    108     54     130        56        0        240       927
     04:15 PM      50     273     20       0     343     53     255     25       0       333       19      58       10    1     88     57     151        66        0        274      1038
     04:30 PM      71     235      8       0     314     39     216     14       0       269       28      62       26    0    116     84     181        81        1        347      1046
     04:45 PM      79     248     17       0     344     59     227     14       0       300       22      57       20    0     99     68     183        64        0        315      1058
         Total    244    1007     60       0    1311    186     913     72       0      1171      104    229        77    1    411    263     645       267        1       1176      4069

     05:00 PM      79     245     13       1     338     62    209       6       0      277      40      52      26      0     118     75     177        70        4        326      1059
     05:15 PM      81     241     22       0     344     52    232      15       0      299      38      61      12      1     112     56     213        84        0        353      1108
     05:30 PM      61     259     22       0     342     56    239      23       0      318      17      44      14      0      75     52     179        78        0        309      1044
     05:45 PM      57     214     24       0     295     56    208      21       0      285      24      40       8      0      72     44     121        52        1        218       870
         Total    278     959     81       1    1319    226    888      65       0     1179     119     197      60      1     377    227     690       284        5       1206      4081

   Grand Total     522   1966     141       1   2630    412    1801    137       0     2350      223    426    137       2     788     490   1335       551         6      2382      8150
     Apprch %     19.8    74.8    5.4       0           17.5   76.6     5.8      0              28.3   54.1    17.4    0.3            20.6     56      23.1       0.3
        Total %    6.4    24.1    1.7       0    32.3    5.1   22.1     1.7      0     28.8      2.7    5.2     1.7      0     9.7       6    16.4      6.8       0.1       29.2
           Cars    497   1849     133       1   2480    409    1676    125       0     2210      216    423    126       2     767     482   1326       536         6      2350      7807
        % Cars    95.2     94    94.3     100    94.3   99.3   93.1    91.2      0       94     96.9   99.3     92     100    97.3    98.4    99.3     97.3      100        98.7      95.8
    Single Unit
                    5      27      1       0      33      3      27      6       0        36      3       2       4      0       9      2       3        11        0          16       94
         Trucks
 % Single Unit
                    1     1.4     0.7      0     1.3     0.7    1.5     4.4      0       1.5     1.3    0.5     2.9      0     1.1     0.4    0.2         2        0         0.7       1.2
         Trucks
  Semi-Trailer
                   20      90      7       0     117      0      98      6       0      104       4       1       7      0      12      6       6         4        0          16      249
         Trucks
       % Semi-
                   3.8    4.6      5       0     4.4      0     5.4     4.4      0       4.4     1.8    0.2     5.1      0     1.5     1.2    0.4       0.7        0         0.7       3.1
 Trailer Trucks
                                                                             V3 Companies
                                                                              7325 Janes Avenue
Project: Monarch Landing                                                      Woodridge, IL 60517                                                  File Name    : Ferry - Monarch - AM
Location: Naperville, IL                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00001111
Weather: Dry                                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 4/4/2012
Counted by: V3                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                              Groups Printed- Cars - Single Unit Trucks - Trailer Trucks
                            City Gate Ln                           Monarch Dr                                 Ferry Rd                              Ferry Rd
                            Northbound                            Southbound                                 Eastbound                             Westbound
                                               App.                                    App.                                  App.                                      App.      Int.
    Start Time     LT    TH      RT    Peds             LT     TH      RT Peds                    LT     TH       RT Peds             LT     TH        RT   Peds
                                               Total                                   Total                                 Total                                     Total   Total
     07:00 AM       3      0      1        0      4      2       0      1       0          3       4    224        20    0    248      7     79         0         0      86     341
     07:15 AM       4      0      5        0      9      2       0      1       0          3       3    237        18    0    258     10    118         0         0     128     398
     07:30 AM       2      1      3        0      6      2       0      2       0          4       4    302        22    1    329     25    105         2         0     132     471
     07:45 AM       6      0      3        0      9      1       0      0       0          1      14    306        45    0    365     35    108        10         0     153     528
         Total     15      1     12        0     28      7       0      4       0        11       25   1069      105     1   1200     77    410        12         0     499    1738

     08:00 AM       5      0      3        0      8      2       0      1       0         3      9     248      30      1     288     19     85         1         0     105     404
     08:15 AM       6      0      5        0     11      1       0      2       0         3      7     214      27      0     248     18     95         1         0     114     376
     08:30 AM       6      1      0        0      7      2       0      1       0         3      8     195      27      0     230     10     85         3         0      98     338
     08:45 AM       5      0      4        0      9      3       0      4       0         7      5     208      13      0     226     12     89         4         1     106     348
         Total     22      1     12        0     35      8       0      8       0        16     29     865      97      1     992     59    354         9         1     423    1466

   Grand Total      37      2     24       0     63     15       0     12       0        27     54    1934    202       2    2192     136   764        21          1    922    3204
     Apprch %     58.7    3.2   38.1       0           55.6      0    44.4      0              2.5    88.2     9.2    0.1            14.8   82.9      2.3        0.1
        Total %    1.2    0.1    0.7       0      2     0.5      0     0.4      0      0.8     1.7    60.4     6.3    0.1    68.4     4.2   23.8      0.7          0   28.8
           Cars     36      2     22       0    60      15       0     12       0       27      54    1898    200       2    2154     134   725        21          1   881     3122
        % Cars    97.3   100    91.7       0   95.2    100       0    100       0      100     100    98.1     99     100    98.3    98.5   94.9      100       100    95.6     97.4
    Single Unit
                    1      0      2        0      3      0       0      0       0         0      0      23       2      0      25      2     28         0         0      30      58
         Trucks
 % Single Unit
                   2.7     0     8.3       0    4.8      0       0      0       0         0      0     1.2       1      0     1.1     1.5    3.7        0         0     3.3      1.8
         Trucks
  Semi-Trailer
                    0      0      0        0      0      0       0      0       0         0      0      13       0      0      13      0     11         0         0      11      24
         Trucks
       % Semi-
                    0      0      0        0      0      0       0      0       0         0      0     0.7       0      0     0.6      0     1.4        0         0     1.2      0.7
 Trailer Trucks
                                                                            V3 Companies
                                                                             7325 Janes Avenue
Project: Monarch Landing                                                     Woodridge, IL 60517                                                   File Name    : Ferry - Monarch - PM
Location: Naperville, IL                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00333333
Weather: Dry                                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 4/4/2012
Counted by: V3                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Cars - Single Unit Trucks - Trailer Trucks
                           City Gate Ln                           Monarch Dr                                 Ferry Rd                               Ferry Rd
                           Northbound                            Southbound                                 Eastbound                              Westbound
                                              App.                                    App.                                  App.                                       App.      Int.
    Start Time     LT    TH     RT    Peds             LT     TH      RT Peds                    LT     TH       RT Peds             LT     TH         RT   Peds
                                              Total                                   Total                                 Total                                      Total   Total
     04:00 PM      25      0    15        0     40      5       0      5       0        10        8    105         5    1    119      3     246         2        0      251     420
     04:15 PM      14      0    12        0     26      0       0      7       0          7       0      91        4    0     95      2     235         5        0      242     370
     04:30 PM      31      0    47        0     78      1       0      6       0          7       2      90        1    0     93      8     302         4        0      314     492
     04:45 PM      12      0    23        0     35      1       0      6       0          7       3    111         5    0    119      2     306         3        0      311     472
         Total     82      0    97        0    179      7       0     24       0        31       13    397        15    1    426     15    1089        14        0     1118    1754

     05:00 PM      34      0    28        0     62      5       0     11       0        16      3     111       4      0     118      5     303         1        1      310     506
     05:15 PM      12      0    23        0     35      4       0     18       1        23      5     103       6      0     114      6     300         3        0      309     481
     05:30 PM      13      0    19        0     32      4       0      3       0         7      2     117       5      0     124      2     246         5        0      253     416
     05:45 PM       5      0    10        0     15      1       0      2       0         3      1      82       7      1      91      0     207         1        0      208     317
         Total     64      0    80        0    144     14       0     34       1        49     11     413      22      1     447     13    1056        10        1     1080    1720

   Grand Total     146     0    177       0    323     21       0     58       1        80     24     810     37       2     873      28   2145        24         1    2198    3474
     Apprch %     45.2     0   54.8       0           26.2      0    72.5    1.2              2.7    92.8     4.2    0.2             1.3    97.6      1.1         0
        Total %    4.2     0    5.1       0    9.3     0.6      0     1.7      0       2.3    0.7    23.3     1.1    0.1    25.1     0.8    61.7      0.7         0     63.3
           Cars    144     0    175       0   319      21       0     56       1        78     24     794     36       2     856      25   2109        24         1    2159    3412
        % Cars    98.6     0   98.9       0   98.8    100       0    96.6    100      97.5    100      98    97.3    100    98.1    89.3    98.3      100       100     98.2    98.2
    Single Unit
                    2      0     2        0      4      0       0      2       0         2      0       4       1      0       5      3      21         0        0       24      35
         Trucks
 % Single Unit
                   1.4     0    1.1       0    1.2      0       0     3.4      0       2.5      0     0.5     2.7      0     0.6    10.7      1         0        0      1.1        1
         Trucks
  Semi-Trailer
                    0      0     0        0      0      0       0      0       0         0      0      12       0      0      12      0      15         0        0       15      27
         Trucks
       % Semi-
                    0      0     0        0      0      0       0      0       0         0      0     1.5       0      0     1.4      0     0.7         0        0      0.7      0.8
 Trailer Trucks
                                                                                      400 S. Eagle Street
                                                                                    Naperville, Illinois, 60540
                                                                               Great Service All -The-Time                                             File Name        : Ferry and Comfort 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code        : 20100146
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted

                             From North                                   From East                                      From South                                   From West
Start Time    Right   Thru      Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left     Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left     Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
      05:45       5      0        0       0           5        0     44        1         0          45        1      0        1       0           2        4     69        4         0          77         129
      Total       5      0        0       0           5        0     44        1         0          45        1      0        1       0           2        4     69        4         0          77         129

      06:00      1      0         0       0           1       0     42         2         0         44        0      1         1       1           3       2     89         1         0         92          140
      06:15      1      0         1       0           2       0     60         3         0         63        0      0         0       0           0       8    143         4         0        155          220
      06:30      0      0         0       0           0       2     68         5         0         75        0      0         0       0           0      10    156         2         0        168          243
      06:45      0      0         0       0           0       0     51         5         0         56        1      0         1       0           2      12    169         0         0        181          239
      Total      2      0         1       0           3       2    221        15         0        238        1      1         2       1           5      32    557         7         0        596          842

      07:00      3      0         3       3           9       2     67        10         0         79        1      0         1       0           2      15    193         4         0        212          302
      07:15      1      0         1       0           2       2     64         0         0         66        4      0         7       0          11      13    192         5         0        210          289
      07:30      0      0         0       0           0       2     88         6         0         96        3      0         3       0           6      16    204         5         0        225          327
      07:45      3      0         3       0           6       0     69        12         0         81        3      0         4       0           7      13    175         3         0        191          285
      Total      7      0         7       3          17       6    288        28         0        322       11      0        15       0          26      57    764        17         0        838         1203

      08:00      2      0         0       0           2       0    112        23         0        135        1      1         4       0           6      16    197        15         0        228          371
      08:15      4      0         0       2           6      20     88        24         0        132        2      0         1       1           4      14    150        15         0        179          321
      08:30      2      0         0       0           2       2     79        21         0        102        1      0         2       0           3       4    139        10         0        153          260
      08:45      2      0         0       0           2       0     63        16         0         79        2      0         4       0           6       9    147        16         0        172          259
      Total     10      0         0       2          12      22    342        84         0        448        6      1        11       1          19      43    633        56         0        732         1211

      09:00      3      0         2       0           5       0     56         9         0         65        4      1         2       0           7       5    121         5         0        131          208
      09:15      1      0         0       0           1       0     51         1         0         52        2      0         7       0           9       4    104         8         0        116          178
      09:30      4      0         0       0           4       0     60         4         0         64        4      0         1       0           5       4     77         5         0         86          159
      09:45      6      0         0       2           8       0     69         4         0         73        2      0         2       2           6       2     84         3         0         89          176
      Total     14      0         2       2          18       0    236        18         0        254       12      1        12       2          27      15    386        21         0        422          721

      10:00      3      0         0       0           3       2     57         4         0         63        1      0         8       0           9       2     79         2         0         83          158
      10:15      1      0         0       0           1       0     70         3         0         73        0      0         4       0           4       0     71         1         0         72          150
      10:30      3      1         0       0           4       0     75         0         0         75        5      0         1       0           6       0     73         2         0         75          160
      10:45      2      0         0       0           2       0     83         4         0         87        5      0         0       0           5       3     61         2         0         66          160
      Total      9      1         0       0          10       2    285        11         0        298       11      0        13       0          24       5    284         7         0        296          628

      11:00      3      0         0       1           4       0     78         3         0         81       14      0         2       0          16       0     90         4         0         94          195
      11:15      6      0         0       0           6       0     89         5         0         94        9      0         7       0          16       4     86         1         0         91          207
      11:30     15      0         0       0          15       1    101         1         0        103       12      0         3       0          15       1     81         7         0         89          222
      11:45     13      0         0       0          13       0    113         0         0        113       24      0         9       6          39       2     78         8         0         88          253
      Total     37      0         0       1          38       1    381         9         0        391       59      0        21       6          86       7    335        20         0        362          877
                                                                                      400 S. Eagle Street
                                                                                    Naperville, Illinois, 60540
                                                                               Great Service All -The-Time                                             File Name        : Ferry and Comfort 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code        : 20100146
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                       Page No          :2
                                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted

                             From North                                   From East                                      From South                                   From West
Start Time    Right   Thru      Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left     Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left     Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
      12:00      13      0        0       1          14        1     87        8         0         96       19       0        8       0          27        7     96        5         0        108          245
      12:15       6      0        1       1           8        0     83        7         0         90       12       0        2       0          14        5     72        5         0         82          194
      12:30       3      3        2       0           8        1     98       14         0        113       12       8        5       1          26        5    112       10         0        127          274
      12:45       0      0        0       0           0        0      0        0         0          0         0      0        0       0           0        0      0        0         0          0            0
      Total      22      3        3       2          30        2    268       29         0        299       43       8       15       1          67      17     280       20         0        317          713

      13:00      5      0         1       1           7       2      79       16         0         97       19      0         4       0          23       6     81         7         0         94          221
      13:15      6      0         0       0           6       0      70       10         0         80       12      0         3       0          15       1     92         7         0        100          201
      13:30      2      0         0       0           2       0      84        6         0         90        7      0         2       0           9       4     80         6         0         90          191
      13:45      6      0         1       2           9       1      63        5         0         69        2      0         7       0           9       1     77         8         0         86          173
      Total     19      0         2       3          24       3     296       37         0        336       40      0        16       0          56      12    330        28         0        370          786

      14:00      8      0         0       0           8       1      91        2         0         94        8      0         6       0          14       3     73         4         1         81          197
      14:15      3      0         1       0           4       0     132       10         0        142        7      0         7       0          14       3     78         3         0         84          244
      14:30     12      0         1       0          13       2     132        5         0        139        7      0         8       0          15       0     95         7         0        102          269
      14:45     11      0         2       0          13       1     172        3         0        176        5      0         8       1          14       0    105         8         0        113          316
      Total     34      0         4       0          38       4     527       20         0        551       27      0        29       1          57       6    351        22         1        380         1026

      15:00      9      0         1       2          12       2     121        4         0        127       13      0        13       0          26       0     63         4         0         67          232
      15:15      2      0         0       0           2       0     138       11         0        149       15      0         7       0          22       1     78         4         0         83          256
      15:30      4      0         0       0           4       0     219        6         0        225       12      0        16       0          28       1    119         4         0        124          381
      15:45     12      0         0       0          12       0     185        1         0        186       11      0        10       0          21       1    136         4         0        141          360
      Total     27      0         1       2          30       2     663       22         0        687       51      0        46       0          97       3    396        16         0        415         1229

      16:00     29      0         0       0          29       0     236        9         0        245       26      0        13       0         39        1    126         3         0        130          443
      16:15     10      0         0       0          10       1     246        1         0        248       18      0         6       0         24        3    130         0         0        133          415
      16:30     18      0         0       0          18       0     280        3         0        283       46      0        18       0         64        2    148         7         0        157          522
      16:45     14     12         3       0          29       0     246        5         0        251       27     10        12       0         49        2    116         2         0        120          449
      Total     71     12         3       0          86       1    1008       18         0       1027      117     10        49       0        176        8    520        12         0        540         1829

      17:00      3      0         4       0           7       2     205        2         0        209       12      0        12       0         24        2    113         2         0        117          357
      17:15      2      0         3       0           5       6     211        2         0        219       19      0        15       0         34        1    113         6         0        120          378
      17:30     14      0         1       0          15       0     231        2         0        233       38      0        11       1         50        1    100         0         0        101          399
      17:45      6      1         0       0           7       0     170        3         0        173       30      0         9       1         40        2    135         1         0        138          358
      Total     25      1         8       0          34       8     817        9         0        834       99      0        47       2        148        6    461         9         0        476         1492

      18:00      3      0         0       1           4       0     144        2         0        146       18      0         6       0          24       7    140         2         0        149          323
      18:15      4      0         0       0           4       0     170        2         0        172        6      0         1       0           7       0    215         1         0        216          399
      18:30      3      0         0       0           3       1     113        3         0        117        9      0         5       1          15       0    143         1         0        144          279
      18:45      2      1         1       0           4       0      81        0         0         81        6      0         3       0           9       0    117         0         0        117          211
      Total     12      1         1       1          15       1     508        7         0        516       39      0        15       1          55       7    615         4         0        626         1212
                                                                                           400 S. Eagle Street
                                                                                         Naperville, Illinois, 60540
                                                                                    Great Service All -The-Time                                               File Name        : Ferry and Comfort 2010
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code        : 20100146
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date       : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                              Page No          :3
                                                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted

                               From North                                      From East                                      From South                                     From West
Start Time      Right   Thru      Left   Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru       Left     Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left   Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru      Left     Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
       19:00        1      0        0       0             1        0     71         2         0         73         3      1        3       0             7        1     73        1         0         75          156
       19:15        2      0        0       2             4        0     65         1         0         66         2      0        2       0             4        0     58        3         0         61          135
       19:30        2      0        1       0             3        0     58         0         0         58         3      0        2       1             6        1     43        0         0         44          111
       19:45        0      0        2       0             2        0     64         1         0         65         3      0        2       0             5        0     38        1         0         39          111
       Total        5      0        3       2            10        0    258         4         0        262       11       1        9       1            22        2    212        5         0        219          513

  Grand Total    299      18        35       18        370       54    6142       312         0       6508      528     22       301        16        867      224    6193      248         1       6666       14411
   Apprch %     80.8     4.9       9.5      4.9                  0.8    94.4      4.8         0                60.9     2.5      34.7      1.8                 3.4    92.9      3.7         0
     Total %     2.1     0.1       0.2      0.1         2.6      0.4    42.6      2.2         0       45.2      3.7     0.2       2.1      0.1           6     1.6      43      1.7         0       46.3
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY   MONARCH LANDING   HEALTHCARE CENTER




              APPENDIX B
CAPACITY ANALYSIS WORKSHEETS (EXISTING)
                                                                     FULL REPORT
General Information                                                                     Site Information
Analyst        JWB                                                                      Intersection       Ferry and IL 59
Agency or Co. V3 Companies                                                              Area Type          All other areas
Date Performed 4/13/2012                                                                Jurisdiction       IDOT
Time Period    AM Peak Hour                                                             Analysis Year      2012
Intersection Geometry
                                  1    2        1
 Grade = 0




                                                                         Grade =    0




      1                                                                             1


      2                                                                             2


      1                                                                             1



  Grade = 0




                                                                         Grade =    0

                              1        2            1
Volume and Timing Input
                                                         EB                                WB                           NB                     SB
                                           LT            TH         RT         LT          TH       RT         LT       TH      RT      LT     TH         RT
                                                                                                                                              1001
Volume (vph)                           133              747        61         96          175      170        153      867     162     328                56

% Heavy Veh                                10            2         20          8           3        3          8        10      5       3     10          17
PHF                                    0.95             0.95       0.95      0.95        0.95      0.95       0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95   0.95    0.95
Actuated (P/A)                             A             A          A          A           A        A          A        A       A       A      A          A
Startup Lost Time                       2.0             2.0        2.0        2.0         2.0      2.0        2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0    2.0         2.0
Extension of Effective Green            2.0             2.0        2.0        2.0         2.0      2.0        2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0    2.0         2.0
Arrival Type                               3             3          3          3           3        3          3        3       3       3      3          3
Unit Extension                          3.0             3.0        3.0        3.0          3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0
Ped/Bike/RTOR Volume                       0             0          0          0           0        0          0        0       0       0      0          0
Lane Width                             12.0             12.0       12.0      12.0        12.0      12.0       12.0     12.0    12.0    12.0   12.0    12.0
Parking (Y or N)                           N                        N         N                     N          N                N       N                 N
Parking/Hour
Bus Stops/Hour                             0             0          0          0            0        0         0         0      0       0      0           0
Pedestrian Timing                                       3.2                               3.2                           3.2                   3.2
                 Excl. Left       EW Perm                     03                   04            Excl. Left          SB Only        NS Perm          08
               G = 7.0            G = 30.0              G=                 G=                    G = 7.0           G = 6.0       G = 49.0      G=
Timing
              Y= 3            Y= 6                      Y=                 Y=                    Y= 3              Y= 3         Y= 6           Y=
Duration of Analysis (hrs) = 0.25                                                                                  Cycle Length C = 120.0
                   VOLUME ADJUSTMENT AND SATURATION FLOW RATE WORKSHEET

General Information
Project Description   Monarch Landing Healthcare Center
Volume Adjustment
                                       EB                        WB                        NB                        SB

                                LT      TH        RT      LT      TH        RT      LT      TH        RT      LT      TH        RT
                                                                                                                     1001
Volume                         133     747       61      96      175       170     153     867       162     328               56

PHF                           0.95     0.95      0.95    0.95    0.95      0.95    0.95    0.95      0.95    0.95    0.95      0.95

                                                                                                                     1054
Adjusted Flow Rate             140     786       64      101     184       179     161     913       171     345               59

Lane Group                      L       T         R       L       T         R       L       T         R       L       T         R

                                                                                                                     1054
Adjusted Flow Rate             140     786       64      101     184       179     161     913       171     345               59

Proportion of LT or RT         1.000        --   1.000   1.000        --   1.000   1.000        --   1.000   1.000        --   1.000

Saturation Flow Rate
                               1900    2000      1900    1900    2000      1900    1900    2000      1900    1900    2000      1900
Base Satflow

Number of Lanes                 1       2         1       1       2         1       1       2         1       1       2         1

fW                            1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000


fHV                           0.909    0.980     0.833   0.926   0.971     0.971   0.926   0.909     0.952   0.971   0.909     0.855


fg                            1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000

                              1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000
fp

                              1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000
fbb

fa                            1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000


fLU                           1.000    0.952     1.000   1.000   0.952     1.000   1.000   0.952     1.000   1.000   0.952     1.000


fLT                           0.950    1.000             0.950   1.000             0.950   1.000             0.950   1.000
                                                  --                        --                        --                        --

Secondary fLT                 0.546    0.546             0.111   0.111             0.203   0.203             0.166   0.166
                                                  --                        --                        --                        --

fRT                                    1.000     0.850           1.000     0.850           1.000     0.850           1.000     0.850
                                --                        --                        --                        --

fLpb                          1.000    1.000             1.000   1.000             1.000   1.000             1.000   1.000
                                                  --                        --                        --                        --

fRpb                                   1.000     1.000           1.000     1.000           1.000     1.000           1.000     1.000
                                --                        --                        --                        --

                               1641    3733      1346    1671    3697      1568    1671    3462      1538    1752    3462      1380
Adjusted Satflow

                                       2038
Secondary Adjusted Satflow     943                --     195     411        --     356     701        --     307     576        --
                                                        CAPACITY AND LOS WORKSHEET
 General Information
 Project Description         Monarch Landing Healthcare Center
 Capacity Analysis
                                                        EB                         WB                             NB                           SB
 Lane Group                                L            T      R      L            T       R        L            T       R          L        T          R
                                                                                                                                           1054
 Adjusted Flow Rate                       140         786     64     101         184     179       161       913        171       345                  59
                                          1641        3733    1346   1671        3697    1568      1671      3462       1538      1752     3462        1380
 Satflow Rate

 Lost Time                                2.0         2.0     2.0    2.0         2.0      2.0      2.0           2.0    2.0        2.0      2.0        2.0
 Green Ratio                             0.36         0.25    0.36   0.36     0.25       0.43      0.47      0.41       0.52      0.59     0.48        0.59
                                                                                                             1414                          1673
 Lane Group Capacity                      379         933     482    157         924     679       242                  795       375                  816

 v/c Ratio                               0.37         0.84    0.13   0.64     0.20       0.26      0.67      0.65       0.22      0.92     0.63        0.07
 Flow Ratio                              0.06         0.21    0.05   0.06     0.05       0.11      0.06      0.26       0.11      0.13     0.30        0.04
 Critical Lane Group                       Y            Y      N      N          N         N        N            N       N          Y        N          N
 Sum Flow Ratios                                                                            0.76
 Lost Time/Cycle                                                                           18.00
 Critical v/c Ratio                                                                         0.90
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                                        EB                         WB                             NB                           SB
 Lane Group                                L           T       R      L            T       R        L            T       R          L       T           R
                                                                                                                                           1054
 Adjusted Flow Rate                       140         786     64     101         184     179       161       913        171       345                  59
                                                                                                             1414                          1673
 Lane Group Capacity                      379         933     482    157         924     679       242                  795       375                  816

 v/c Ratio                               0.37         0.84    0.13   0.64     0.20       0.26      0.67      0.65       0.22      0.92     0.63        0.07
 Green Ratio                             0.36         0.25    0.36   0.36     0.25       0.43      0.47      0.41       0.52      0.59     0.48        0.59
 Uniform Delay d1                        28.5         42.8    25.9   29.7     35.5       21.8      19.9      28.5       15.8      22.2     23.0        10.5
 Delay Factor k                          0.11         0.38    0.11   0.22     0.11       0.11      0.24      0.22       0.11      0.44     0.21        0.11
 Incremental Delay d2                      0.6         7.1     0.1    8.7        0.1      0.2       6.8          1.0     0.1       27.4     0.8         0.0
 PF Factor                               1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000              1.000      1.000     1.000     1.000      1.000     1.000 1.000 1.000
 Control Delay                            29.1        49.8    26.1   38.4        35.6     22.0     26.6          29.6   15.9       49.6     23.8       10.5
 Lane Group LOS                            C            D      C      D          D         C        C            C       B         D         C          B
 Approach Delay                                  45.4                       31.0                           27.3                           29.4
 Approach LOS                                     D                          C                               C                             C
 Intersection Delay                              32.7                                    Intersection LOS                                  C

Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                             HCS+TM Version 5.5                      Generated: 4/13/2012    4:08 PM
                                                                     FULL REPORT
General Information                                                                     Site Information
Analyst        JWB                                                                      Intersection       Ferry and IL 59
Agency or Co. V3 Companies                                                              Area Type          All other areas
Date Performed 4/13/2012                                                                Jurisdiction       IDOT
Time Period    PM Peak Hour                                                             Analysis Year      2012
Intersection Geometry
                                  1    2        1
 Grade = 0




                                                                         Grade =    0




      1                                                                             1


      2                                                                             2


      1                                                                             1



  Grade = 0




                                                                         Grade =    0

                              1        2            1
Volume and Timing Input
                                                         EB                                WB                           NB                     SB
                                           LT            TH         RT         LT          TH       RT         LT       TH      RT      LT     TH         RT
Volume (vph)                           128              232        84        283          754      299        310      969     60      212    884         49
% Heavy Veh                                10            2         20          8           3        3          8        10      5       3     10          17
PHF                                    0.95             0.95       0.95      0.95        0.95      0.95       0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95   0.95    0.95
Actuated (P/A)                             A             A          A          A           A        A          A        A       A       A      A          A
Startup Lost Time                       2.0             2.0        2.0        2.0         2.0      2.0        2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0    2.0         2.0
Extension of Effective Green            2.0             2.0        2.0        2.0         2.0      2.0        2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0    2.0         2.0
Arrival Type                               3             3          3          3           3        3          3        3       3       3      3          3
Unit Extension                          3.0             3.0        3.0        3.0          3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0
Ped/Bike/RTOR Volume                       0             0          0          0           0        0          0        0       0       0      0          0
Lane Width                             12.0             12.0       12.0      12.0        12.0      12.0       12.0     12.0    12.0    12.0   12.0    12.0
Parking (Y or N)                           N                        N         N                     N          N                N       N                 N
Parking/Hour
Bus Stops/Hour                             0             0          0          0            0        0         0         0      0       0      0           0
Pedestrian Timing                                       3.2                               3.2                           3.2                   3.2
                 Excl. Left       EW Perm                     03                   04            Excl. Left          NB Only        NS Perm          08
               G = 9.0            G = 28.0              G=                 G=                    G = 8.0           G = 5.0       G = 49.0      G=
Timing
              Y= 3            Y= 6                      Y=                 Y=                    Y= 3              Y= 3         Y= 6           Y=
Duration of Analysis (hrs) = 0.25                                                                                  Cycle Length C = 120.0
                   VOLUME ADJUSTMENT AND SATURATION FLOW RATE WORKSHEET

General Information
Project Description   Monarch Landing Healthcare Center
Volume Adjustment
                                       EB                        WB                        NB                        SB

                                LT      TH        RT      LT      TH        RT      LT      TH        RT      LT      TH        RT

Volume                         128     232       84      283     754       299     310     969       60      212     884       49

PHF                           0.95     0.95      0.95    0.95    0.95      0.95    0.95    0.95      0.95    0.95    0.95      0.95

                                                                                           1020
Adjusted Flow Rate             135     244       88      298     794       315     326               63      223     931       52

Lane Group                      L       T         R       L       T         R       L       T         R       L       T         R

                                                                                           1020
Adjusted Flow Rate             135     244       88      298     794       315     326               63      223     931       52

Proportion of LT or RT         1.000        --   1.000   1.000        --   1.000   1.000        --   1.000   1.000        --   1.000

Saturation Flow Rate
                               1900    2000      1900    1900    2000      1900    1900    2000      1900    1900    2000      1900
Base Satflow

Number of Lanes                 1       2         1       1       2         1       1       2         1       1       2         1

fW                            1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000


fHV                           0.909    0.980     0.833   0.926   0.971     0.971   0.926   0.909     0.952   0.971   0.909     0.855


fg                            1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000

                              1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000
fp

                              1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000
fbb

fa                            1.000    1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000   1.000   1.000     1.000


fLU                           1.000    0.952     1.000   1.000   0.952     1.000   1.000   0.952     1.000   1.000   0.952     1.000


fLT                           0.950    1.000             0.950   1.000             0.950   1.000             0.950   1.000
                                                  --                        --                        --                        --

Secondary fLT                 0.118    0.118             0.476   0.476             0.159   0.159             0.209   0.209
                                                  --                        --                        --                        --

fRT                                    1.000     0.850           1.000     0.850           1.000     0.850           1.000     0.850
                                --                        --                        --                        --

fLpb                          1.000    1.000             1.000   1.000             1.000   1.000             1.000   1.000
                                                  --                        --                        --                        --

fRpb                                   1.000     1.000           1.000     1.000           1.000     1.000           1.000     1.000
                                --                        --                        --                        --

                               1641    3733      1346    1671    3697      1568    1671    3462      1538    1752    3462      1380
Adjusted Satflow

                                                                 1760
Secondary Adjusted Satflow     203     439        --     837                --     281     552        --     385     722        --
                                                       CAPACITY AND LOS WORKSHEET
 General Information
 Project Description         Monarch Landing Healthcare Center
 Capacity Analysis
                                                       EB                          WB                             NB                           SB
 Lane Group                                L           T       R      L            T       R        L            T       R          L        T          R
                                                                                                             1020
 Adjusted Flow Rate                       135        244      88     298         794     315       326                  63        223      931         52
                                          1641       3733     1346   1671        3697    1568      1671      3462       1538      1752     3462        1380
 Satflow Rate

 Lost Time                                2.0        2.0      2.0    2.0         2.0      2.0      2.0           2.0    2.0        2.0      2.0        2.0
 Green Ratio                             0.36        0.23     0.42   0.36     0.23       0.35      0.59      0.47       0.60      0.47     0.41        0.53
                                                                                                             1644                          1414
 Lane Group Capacity                      183        871      561    362         863     549       352                  923       274                  736

 v/c Ratio                               0.74        0.28     0.16   0.82     0.92       0.57      0.93      0.62       0.07      0.81     0.66        0.07
 Flow Ratio                              0.07        0.07     0.07   0.07     0.21       0.20      0.13      0.29       0.04      0.07     0.27        0.04
 Critical Lane Group                       Y           N       N      N          Y         N        Y            N       N         N         N          N
 Sum Flow Ratios                                                                            0.79
 Lost Time/Cycle                                                                           18.00
 Critical v/c Ratio                                                                         0.93
 Lane Group Capacity, Control Delay, and LOS Determination
                                                       EB                          WB                             NB                           SB
 Lane Group                                L          T        R      L            T       R        L         T          R          L        T          R
                                                                                                             1020
 Adjusted Flow Rate                       135        244      88     298         794     315       326                  63        223      931         52
                                                                                                             1644                          1414
 Lane Group Capacity                      183        871      561    362         863     549       352                  923       274                  736

 v/c Ratio                               0.74        0.28     0.16   0.82     0.92       0.57      0.93      0.62       0.07      0.81     0.66        0.07
 Green Ratio                             0.36        0.23     0.42   0.36     0.23       0.35      0.59      0.47       0.60      0.47     0.41        0.53
 Uniform Delay d1                        30.6        37.7     21.8   37.9     44.9       31.7      23.3      23.4       10.0      36.0     28.7        13.6
 Delay Factor k                          0.30        0.11     0.11   0.36     0.44       0.17      0.44      0.20       0.11      0.35     0.23        0.11
 Incremental Delay d2                     14.6        0.2      0.1   14.2        14.9     1.5      29.9          0.7     0.0       17.0     1.1         0.0
 PF Factor                               1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000              1.000      1.000     1.000     1.000      1.000     1.000 1.000 1.000
 Control Delay                            45.1       37.9     22.0   52.1        59.8     33.2     53.2          24.2   10.0       53.0     29.9       13.6
 Lane Group LOS                            D           D       C      D          E         C        D            C       B         D         C          B
 Approach Delay                                 37.0                        52.2                           30.3                           33.4
 Approach LOS                                    D                           D                               C                             C
 Intersection Delay                             38.7                                     Intersection LOS                                  D

Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                             HCS+TM Version 5.5                      Generated: 4/13/2012    4:16 PM
                                                TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                           Site Information
                                                                                                            Ferry and Monarch/City
 Analyst                                MJR                                Intersection
                                                                                                            Gate
 Agency/Co.                             V3 Companies
                                                                           Jurisdiction                     DuPage
 Date Performed                         4/13/2012
                                                                           Analysis Year                    2012
 Analysis Time Period                   AM Peak Hour

Project Description Monarch Landing Healthcare Center
East/West Street: Ferry Rd                            North/South Street: Monarch Dr/City Gate Ln
Intersection Orientation: East-West                   Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    1                     2            3                     4          5                 6
                                            L                     T            R                     L          T                 R
Volume (veh/h)                             30                   1093         115                    89        416                13
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.95                  0.95         0.95                  0.95       0.95              0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           31                   1150         121                    93         437                13
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                      2                    --              --                  2          --                --
Median Type                                                                            Raised curb
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                       1                    2            0                      1          2                  0
Configuration                               L                    T           TR                      L          T                 TR
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                              0
Minor Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    7                  8               9                    10          11               12
                                            L                  T               R                     L           T                R
Volume (veh/h)                             17                  1              14                    7           0                 4
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.95               0.95            0.95                  0.95        0.95             0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           17                    1               14                  7          0                 4
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                      2                    2               2                   2          2                 2
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
  Storage                                                        0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                   0
Lanes                                       1                    1            0                      0          1                 1
Configuration                               L                                TR                     LT                            R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Eastbound      Westbound                                       Northbound                     Southbound
Movement                    1               4                               7              8           9       10         11            12
Lane Configuration          L              L                               L                          TR      LT                        R
v (veh/h)                  31              93                              17                         15       7                        4
C (m) (veh/h)            1107             542                             132                        416     199                       813
v/c                       0.03            0.17                            0.13                       0.04    0.04                      0.00
95% queue length          0.09            0.61                            0.43                       0.11    0.11                      0.01
Control Delay (s/veh)      8.3            13.0                            36.3                       14.0    23.7                      9.4
LOS                         A              B                               E                           B      C                         A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                           25.8                          18.5
Approach LOS                --              --                                            D                             C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                           HCS+TM Version 5.5        Generated: 4/13/2012    3:33 PM
