          Corridor Feasibility Study

                         for

   ROSEDALE AVENUE CORRIDOR

                      located at


  West Chester Borough, Chester County, PA

                 File No. 13-03030T

                    August 2013
               Revised February 2014


                    Prepared For:

     West Chester Borough, West Goshen Township
             and West Chester University




                     Prepared By:
              Gilmore & Associates, Inc.
Engineers  Land Surveyors  Planners  GIS Consultants
                 65 E. Butler Avenue
                New Britain, PA 18901
                    215-345-4330
                           TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

I.     INTRODUCTION & BACKGROUND

II.    EXISTING ROADWAY NETWORK

III.   EXISTING/FUTURE NO BUILD CONDITIONS

IV.    LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS) ANALYSIS
          a. Existing Conditions
          b. Future No Build Conditions

V.     PLANNED ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS

VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOS IMPACTS

VII.   CONCLUSIONS

APPENDICES
Appendix A: Existing Traffic Count Data
Appendix B: Level of Service (LOS) Methodology
Appendix C: LOS Results ­ Existing (2013)
Appendix D: LOS Results ­ Future (2018) No Build
Appendix E: Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis
Appendix F: LOS Results ­ Future (2018) Build
Appendix G: Alternative Future (2018) Traffic Volumes & LOS Results

                                LIST OF FIGURES

          1. Project Location Map
          2. 2013 Existing Conditions Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
          3. 2013 Existing Conditions Peak Hour Levels of Service
          4. 2018 Future Conditions Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
          5. 2018 Future Conditions Peak Hour Levels of Service
          6. 2018 Recommended Improvements Peak Hour Levels of Service
          7. Stadium Drive Access
          8. One-way Pairs
          9. Rosedale Avenue Extension
          10. Pedestrian Crossing
          11. Pleasant Grove Road Upgrade
          12. West Street Road (S.R. 0926) Upgrade


                                LIST OF TABLES

          1. Existing and Future (2018) No Build Level of Service and Delays
          2. Future 2018 Build Level of Service and Delays
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                    February 2014


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Gilmore & Associates, Inc. (G&A) has been retained by a cooperative effort between
West Chester Borough, West Goshen Township, and West Chester University to
perform a traffic feasibility study of traffic and pedestrian improvements along the
Rosedale Avenue corridor, from Route 52 east to South Franklin Street, and provide
recommendations based on the findings. The Rosedale Avenue Corridor is a two-lane
roadway in the vicinity of West Chester University that experiences heavy vehicular
traffic as well as pedestrian traffic due to the proximity of the University and the
east/west movement of residential traffic to and from the US-202 corridor. This report
identifies improvements required along the corridor to bring all approaches to each
studied intersection to a Level of Service (LOS) D or better. The report also identifies
alternative improvements that could be constructed in lieu of, or in addition to, the
recommended Rosedale Avenue improvements.

The results of the traffic analysis for the 2018 PM Peak conditions indicate that all
intersections and approaches operate at acceptable levels of service with the exception
of the Rosedale Avenue & PA Route 52 and Rosedale Avenue & South Matlack Street
intersections. A traffic signal warrant analysis was conducted and determined that the
volumes satisfy the requirements for signalization at both locations. In addition, several
locations have been identified for pedestrian improvements including upgraded curb
ramps, repair/replacement of sidewalks, upgrade of pedestrian equipment at signalized
intersections, upgraded pavement markings, and the potential installation of a dedicated
pedestrian area between Roslyn Avenue and South Church Street.

With the installation of the traffic signals at PA Route 52 and Matlack Street, all
intersections and approaches studied will operate at LOS D or better. In addition, the
pedestrian enhancements identified in the report will provide a safer walking
environment along the corridor for pedestrian traffic as well.          However, those
improvements will not divert any of the existing or future traffic volume from Rosedale
Avenue. Therefore, additional improvements were identified as described below.

Upgrade of Tigue Road and Stadium Drive - The upgrade of these roadways could
alleviate traffic on Rosedale Avenue as it would provide a direct connection between the
residential areas southwest of West Chester and the US 202/SR 322 interchange.
However, the environmental impacts would likely be high due to the alignment through
the existing Robert B. Gordon Natural Area for Environmental Studies.               This
improvement would also require modifications to the existing US 202/322 interchange to
provide direct access to the Stadium Drive extension.

One-way Pairs ­ Provide one-way pairs in order to increase the capacity of the existing
roadways. In particular, Rosedale Avenue (EB) and Sharpless Street (WB) would
provide one of the one-way pairs and High Street (NB) and New Street (SB) would
provide the other one-way pair. Additionally, a southbound right turn lane would be
provided along New Street which could be accomplished within the existing cartway
width with minor modifications to the existing pavement markings.




                                            i
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                       February 2014


Extend Rosedale Avenue to Bolmar Street/Westtown Road ­ Extend Rosedale Avenue
to provide a more direct connection to Westtown Road and US 202/322. This
improvement would likely have high environmental impacts due to existing streams and
floodplains in the vicinity of the probable alignment of the extension. In order to
minimize the impacts, it is recommended that the roadway extension terminate at
Bolmar Street. Traffic traveling north would utilize the existing signal at Nields Street
and traffic traveling south to US 202/322 would utilize Autopark Boulevard.

Pedestrian Crossing ­ There are two existing pedestrian crossings with yellow flashing
overhead lights along Rosedale Avenue between Roslyn Avenue and South Church
Street. The use of the existing continuous overhead yellow flashing lights is not
recommended as it becomes ineffective over time as drivers become accustomed to the
flashing lights and they eventually provide little or no benefit to pedestrian safety. The
alternatives identified include the upgrade of the existing flashing yellow lights to
Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFB), the installation of two new traffic signals
with pedestrian actuation, and the construction of an elevated pedestrian bridge over
Rosedale Avenue.

Upgrade Pleasant Grove Road ­ Upgrade the existing roadway to provide adequate
lane and shoulder widths and install a traffic signal at the intersection with US 202/322.
In order to improve the viability of this option, Pleasant Grove Road should be extended
to Birmingham Road.

Upgrade West Street Road (S.R. 0926) ­ Upgrade the existing roadway to provide
adequate lane and shoulder widths from Creek Road to US 202/322.

In order to provide traffic relief along Rosedale Avenue, it is recommended that Tigue
Road and Stadium Drive be improved and upgraded to provide a connection from PA
Route 52 to the US 202/322 interchange. Additional studies would be required to
determine the exact impact of this alternative on the existing Nature Area. Although the
alternative will likely have high environmental impacts, it would provide the highest traffic
diversion and most significant traffic relief for Rosedale Avenue, while improving
pedestrian safety on Rosedale Avenue.




                                             ii
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                    February 2014


INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
Gilmore & Associates, Inc. (G&A) has been retained by a cooperative effort between
West Chester Borough, West Goshen Township, and West Chester University to
perform a traffic feasibility study of traffic and pedestrian improvements along the
Rosedale Avenue corridor, from Route 52 east to South Franklin Street, and provide
recommendations based on the findings. The Rosedale Avenue Corridor is a two-lane
roadway in the vicinity of West Chester University that experiences heavy vehicular
traffic as well as pedestrian traffic due to the proximity of the University. The roadway
provides eastbound/westbound access to/from US Route 202 for residents to the west
and southwest of West Chester. Significant development has occurred in this area;
however, no major roadway improvements were implemented to mitigate the increase in
traffic. Therefore, vehicles must travel along the overburdened streets within West
Chester Borough to access Route 202. This report will identify improvements required
along the corridor to accommodate existing and future traffic volumes and bring all
approaches to each studied intersection to a Level of Service (LOS) D or better.
Recommendations will include improvements for both roadway and pedestrian facilities,
as there are high pedestrian volumes related to West Chester University campus.
Additionally, other improvements will be identified and considered as alternatives to
upgrading Rosedale Avenue.

Fourteen intersections have been identified to be analyzed in this study:

   1. West Rosedale Avenue & PA Route 52 (Lenape Road/S Bradford Avenue)
   2. West Rosedale Avenue & Brookwood Road
   3. West Rosedale Avenue & College Avenue
   4. West Rosedale Avenue & South Wayne Street
   5. West Rosedale Avenue & South New Street
   6. West Rosedale Avenue & Roslyn Avenue
   7. West Rosedale Avenue & South Church Street (northern leg)
   8. West Rosedale Avenue & South Church Street (southern leg)
   9. West Rosedale Avenue & Ceredo Avenue
   10. West Rosedale Avenue & US Route 322 (South High Street)
   11. East Rosedale Avenue & Sharon Alley
   12. East Rosedale Avenue & South Walnut Street
   13. East Rosedale Avenue & South Matlack Street
   14. East Rosedale Avenue & South Franklin Street

The basis for this project is the findings of the 2005 Regional Transportation Feasibility
and Design Study Final Report prepared by the West Chester Regional Planning
Commission. The study recommendations include intersection capacity improvements
to accommodate existing and future traffic volumes, as well as additional and more
enhanced pedestrian facilities to create a safer walking environment.

A project location map is shown on Figure 1.




                                            1
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                    February 2014


EXISTING ROADWAY NETWORK
Rosedale Avenue is a two-lane roadway with variable lane widths and a posted speed
limit of 25mph. Curb and pedestrian facilities exist along varying sides of the roadway
beginning west of Brookwood Avenue travelling east along the entire corridor to South
Franklin Street. There is both free and metered parking on the north side of Rosedale
Avenue between South New Street and South Matlack Street. The approximately 1.2
mile corridor has a mix of residential uses (single family, apartment complexes and
student housing) and institutional (West Chester University). A more detailed description
of each study area intersection and existing pedestrian facilities is provided below.

PA Route 52 & West Rosedale Avenue
There is an existing mountable median island on the Rosedale Avenue approach to the
intersection, which is stop-controlled. There are currently no pedestrian facilities
present. Four (4) to six (6) foot shoulders exist along Route 52 with a posted speed limit
of 35mph. However, no pedestrian activity was sighted during the field visit. There are
no shoulders present along Rosedale Avenue in the vicinity of the intersection, and
widening to install sidewalk is not feasible due to existing features such as stone walls,
trees and embankments.

Brookwood Avenue & West Rosedale Avenue
Brookwood Avenue is stop-controlled and provides access to an apartment complex.
The existing curb ramps crossing Brookwood Avenue are not currently ADA compliant
(curb cuts are not provided). There is curb on the southeast side of Rosedale Avenue
and no delineated shoulders; no curbing or sidewalks exist on the northwest side of
Rosedale Avenue.

College Avenue & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection currently provides an all-way stop control. There are existing
pedestrian facilities on the south side of Rosedale Avenue. However, there are no
pedestrian facilities along College Avenue or the north side of Rosedale Avenue. No
crosswalks are provided to cross Rosedale Avenue.

South Wayne Street & West Rosedale Avenue
South Wayne Street is stop controlled and provides access to single family residential
homes. Four foot wide ADA compliant sidewalks exist on the eastern side of South
Wayne Street and the southern side of Rosedale Avenue. A painted crosswalk is
located on the eastern side of the intersection crossing Rosedale Avenue.

South New Street & West Rosedale Avenue
The intersection is signalized and currently has pedestrian restrictions on the southern
and western legs. Painted crosswalks are provided across the northern and eastern
legs. Four foot wide ADA compliant sidewalks exist on three approaches to the
intersection. No sidewalks are provided on the southwest corner of the intersection.

Roslyn Avenue & West Rosedale Avenue
Roslyn Avenue is stop controlled. Pedestrian facilities are present along all approaches
to the intersection; however, the corners have non-compliant curb ramps and there are
currently no marked crosswalks at this intersection.


                                            2
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                   February 2014



Mid-block Raised Pedestrian Crossings
There are two (2) mid-block raised pedestrian crossings between the Roslyn Avenue
and South Church Street intersections spaced approximately 300 feet apart. Each
crossing utilizes overhead flashing warning lights that flash continually along with
removable placards indicating "State Law Yield to Pedestrians Within Crosswalk" located
within each. There is a railing on the south side of Rosedale Avenue that restricts
pedestrians from crossing Rosedale Avenue between the two midblock crossings and
redirects pedestrians to the designated crossing areas.

South Church Street (northern leg) & West Rosedale Avenue
South Church Street is a one-way southbound roadway approaching Rosedale Avenue.
The intersection is all-way stop controlled with painted crosswalks crossing each leg of
the intersection. All approaches have sidewalk that is five feet wide or greater with ADA
compliant slopes. However, the existing curb ramps are not compliant with current ADA
standards.

South Church Street (southern leg) & West Rosedale Avenue
South Church Street is a one-way roadway departing Rosedale Avenue. The existing
sidewalk adjacent to Rosedale Avenue is greater than five feet and has compliant
slopes. South Church Street does not have pedestrian facilities.

Ceredo Avenue & West Rosedale Avenue
Ceredo Avenue is a one-way roadway northbound approaching Rosedale Avenue with
stop control. No sidewalk exists along Ceredo Avenue. The existing sidewalk along
Rosedale Avenue is ADA compliant; however, the curb ramps crossing Ceredo Avenue
are non-compliant and no pavement markings are provided. No crossing or ADA ramps
are provided for crossing West Rosedale Avenue.

South High Street & West Rosedale Avenue
This signalized intersection appears to be ADA compliant for current standards for all
sidewalks and curb ramps on all approaches. Pavement markings are provided for the
pedestrian crossings on all approaches of the intersection.

Sharon Alley & East Rosedale Avenue
Sharon Alley is assumed stop-controlled, but no signs or pavement markings are
present. Utilities currently existing in the roadway that interfere with the pedestrian
access route for handicapped pedestrians. Sidewalks are four feet in width with
compliant slopes; however, no sidewalks are present on Sharon Alley.

South Walnut Street & East Rosedale Avenue
The northern leg of South Walnut Street is a one-way roadway departing Rosedale
Avenue; however, there are no signs indicating the restriction. The southern leg is also
a one-way roadway leaving the intersection. There are currently four foot wide
sidewalks with compliant longitudinal and cross slopes along Rosedale Avenue. On
South Walnut Street, there are no sidewalks currently installed on the southern leg and
the northern leg has compliant sidewalk along the eastern side of the street. There is an
asphalt path on the western wide of the roadway that services the park, which is also
compliant.



                                           3
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                      February 2014



South Matlack Street & East Rosedale Avenue
The southbound approach to this all-way stop controlled intersection is a one-way
approaching Rosedale Avenue. The northbound approach has dedicated left-turn and
right-turn lanes. The sidewalk on the northern side of Rosedale Avenue is not compliant
due to the reduced width (3'). Additionally, utility poles are installed within the sidewalk
thereby decreasing the width to 2½' in a few locations. Curb ramps at the intersection
are also not compliant. Portions of the sidewalk on the northern side of Rosedale
Avenue between Matlack Street and Franklin Street are constructed of asphalt and are
severely damaged. In addition, the cross slope in this section of sidewalk exceeds the
two percent maximum.

South Franklin Street & East Rosedale Avenue
The eastbound approach has a free movement while the other approaches are stop
controlled. On the northern side of Rosedale Avenue, the asphalt sidewalk continues
around the corner to the western side of Franklin Street and is damaged. The width is
three feet and the cross slope is also not compliant. On the southern side of Rosedale
Avenue, an apartment complex emergency entrance exists and compliant sidewalk and
handrails serve this entrance. No crosswalks exist for Rosedale Avenue and are not
feasible due to the emergency access driveway and gate.

EXISTING/FUTURE NO BUILD CONDITIONS
The study area intersections were analyzed during the PM peak period for both the
Existing (2013) and Future (2018) No Build conditions. Available existing traffic volume
information was obtained from various traffic studies conducted along the corridor in
recent years. These volumes were factored to current and future conditions utilizing a
growth factor obtained from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Bureau of
Planning and Research. For intersections where no information was available or more
current counts were requested, additional traffic counts were conducted as noted below:

   1. West Rosedale Avenue & Lenape Road (Route 52)
   2. West Rosedale Avenue & Brookwood Avenue
   3. West Rosedale Avenue & College Avenue
   4. West Rosedale Avenue & South Wayne Street
   5. West Rosedale Avenue & South New Street
   6. West Rosedale Avenue & South Church Avenue
   7. West Rosedale Avenue & Ceredo Avenue
   8. West Rosedale Avenue & South High Street
   9. East Rosedale Avenue & South Walnut Avenue
   10. East Rosedale Avenue & South Matlack Street
   11. East Rosedale Avenue & South Franklin Street

The existing and projected traffic count data is included in Appendix A. The counts
were factored to the current year (2013) and projection year (2018) utilizing a yearly
growth factor of 1.91 for Urban Non-Interstate roadways within Chester County. The
resultant current year traffic volumes are shown on Figure 2 and future year no build
traffic volumes are shown on Figure 4.



                                             4
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                    February 2014


LEVEL OF SERVICE ANALYSIS ­ EXISTING & FUTURE NO BUILD
The volumes were subjected to a detailed Level of Service (LOS) analysis according to
standard procedures found in Highway Capacity Manual 2010 (HCM2010) published by
the Transportation Research Board, Washington DC and discussed in detail in
Appendix B. A summary of the level of service results are indicated in Table 1:
Existing and Future No Build Level of Service and Delays. At the signalized
intersections, the existing analysis utilized the existing signal timings while the future
analysis assumed optimized signal timings. The detailed analysis reports for the
Existing (2013) and the Future No Build (2018) are provided in Appendix C and
Appendix D, respectively.




                                            5
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                             February 2014


Table 1: Existing and Future No Build Level of Service and Delays
                                     Existing 2013        Future No Build 2018
           Intersection            PM Peak Hour LOS        PM Peak Hour LOS
                                   (Delay in seconds)      (Delay in seconds)
PA Route 52 & W Rosedale Ave            C (15.4)                D (32.1)
        Westbound Left                  F (92.1)                F (192.9)
        Southbound Left                  A (8.3)                 A (8.4)
Brookwood Ave & W Rosedale Ave           A (0.6)                 A (0.6)
        Westbound Left                   A (7.6)                 A (7.7)
        Northbound Left                  A (9.4)                 A (9.5)
College Ave & W Rosedale Ave             A (8.4)                 A (8.6)
        Eastbound Left                   A (8.6)                 A (8.9)
        Southbound Left                  A (7.6)                 A (7.7)
S Wayne St & W Rosedale Ave              A (0.5)                 A (0.5)
        Eastbound Left                   A (7.9)                 A (8.0)
        Southbound Left                 B (10.9)                B (11.3)
S New St & W Rosedale Ave               B (15.0)                B (16.5)
        Eastbound Left                   A (6.5)                 A (7.1)
        Westbound Left                  B (10.6)                B (12.9)
        Northbound Left                 B (19.6)                C (21.2)
        Southbound Left                 C (22.4)                C (23.2)
Roslyn Ave & W Rosedale Ave              A (1.5)                 A (1.7)
        Northbound Left                 C (18.3)                C (21.2)
        Westbound Left                   A (8.2)                 A (8.4)
S Church St & W Rosedale Ave (N)        B (11.3)                B (12.4)
        Southbound Left                 B (10.4)                B (11.1)
S Church St &W Rosedale Ave (S)          A (0.2)                 A (0.2)
        Westbound Left                   A (8.9)                 A (9.1)
Ceredo Ave & W Rosedale Ave              A (0.6)                 A (0.4)
        Northbound Left                 B (14.1)                C (15.3)
S High St & W Rosedale Ave              B (17.9)                B (19.7)
        Eastbound Left                  C (27.7)                C (27.4)
        Eastbound Thru/Right            C (23.0)                C (21.3)
        Westbound Left                  C (25.6)                C (24.9)
        Westbound Thru/Right            B (19.2)                B (17.7)
        Northbound Left                 C (20.9)                C (28.7)
        Northbound Thru/Right           B (14.1)                B (18.1)
        Southbound Left                 B (17.5)                C (22.0)
        Southbound Thru/Right           B (12.5)                B (16.4)
Sharon Alley & E Rosedale Ave            A (0.4)                 A (0.4)
        Eastbound Left                   A (8.2)                 A (8.4)
        Southbound Left                 B (13.9)                B (14.8)
S Walnut St & E Rosedale Ave             A (0.7)                 A (0.7)
        Eastbound Left                   A (9.0)                 A (9.3)
        Westbound Left                   A (7.9)                 A (8.0)
S Matlack St & E Rosedale Ave           B (15.0)                C (18.2)
        Northbound Left                 C (21.3)                D (27.6)
        Westbound Left                  B (12.6)                B (14.1)
        Southbound Left                 B (11.0)                B (12.0)
S Franklin St & E Rosedale Ave           A (7.4)                 A (7.5)
        Eastbound Left                   A (7.6)                 A (7.6)
        Southbound Left                  A (9.6)                 A (9.7)


                                        6
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                     February 2014



The LOS results are summarized on Figure 3: 2013 Existing Conditions Peak Hour
LOS and Figure 5: 2018 Future Conditions Peak Hour LOS.

As indicated in Table 1, for the Future 2018 condition, the intersection of PA Route 52 &
West Rosedale Avenue is the only intersection that has movements that operate below
the preferred level of service (LOS D or better) and require mitigation. However, the
northbound left turn movement at South Matlack Street & East Rosedale Avenue
experiences high volumes and a LOS D. Therefore, this intersection was also reviewed
for possible intersection improvements.

PLANNED ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS
Upon review of the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission's Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP), there are no improvements programmed in the vicinity of
the study corridor that would have an impact on operations along Rosedale Avenue.
The only project within West Chester Borough is the Church Street Streetscape project,
from Chestnut Street to Miner Street. The streetscape project includes the installation of
sidewalks, curbs, pedestrian street lighting, street furniture, ADA ramps, etc. There is
also an improvement project planned for the S.R 0926 & US 202/322 intersection
including additional lanes and signal upgrades; however, the construction of that
improvement is not scheduled until Fiscal Year 2017-2020 and will likely not have a
significant impact on the Rosedale Avenue corridor.

RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOS IMPACTS
As stated previously, the purpose of this report is to identify improvements required
along the corridor to bring all approaches to each studied intersection to a Level of
Service (LOS) D or better for the existing and future traffic conditions. Alternative
improvements have also been identified that may be constructed in lieu of, or in addition
to, the recommended improvements along Rosedale Avenue and are discussed in more
detail below. As indicated previously, the PA Route 52 & West Rosedale Avenue and
South Matlack Street & East Rosedale Avenue intersections are the only locations that
require mitigation to improve the capacity of the intersection and are detailed below.
However, the following pedestrian improvements have also been identified for each
location to improve the safety of the pedestrian traffic along the corridor:

PA Route 52 & West Rosedale Avenue
The poor overall level of service at this intersection is due to the high volume of traffic
from the minor street trying to gain access to Route 52. A traffic signal warrant analysis
was conducted in accordance with PennDOT Publication 46, Engineering and Traffic
Studies, Subchapter 4.3 "Traffic Signal Warrants and Engineering Studies". Signal
warrant 3 (peak hour volume warrant) was examined utilizing projected 2018 traffic
volumes. According to Publication 46, the volumes satisfy the requirements for
signalization. The detailed signal warrant analysis is included in Appendix E. With the
implementation of this improvement, the overall level of service is improved to LOS A
and the westbound approach is improved from LOS F to LOS B.




                                            7
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                     February 2014


Due to the skewed angle of Rosedale Avenue in relation to PA Route 52, as well as the
generally consistent volumes on all three approaches to the intersection, an alternative
option to consider would be the installation of a roundabout. Roundabouts use yield
conditions on all approaches and allow for slow consistent speeds for all movements; in
addition, a roundabout would provide the necessary traffic control measure that is
sensitive to the historical context of the area. However, the site would have to be more
closely surveyed to determine available right-of-way, potential utility conflicts, existing
grades, etc. to verify whether construction of a roundabout is feasible at this location.

Brookwood Avenue & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS A. However,
the existing curb ramps crossing Brookwood Avenue should be upgraded to be ADA
compliant. The four foot wide sidewalk along the southern side of Rosedale Avenue will
require replacement adjacent to the proposed curb ramps. Sections of the sidewalk
between Brookwood Avenue and College Avenue have cross slopes that exceed two
percent and should therefore be replaced.

College Avenue & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS A. Since there
are no pedestrian facilities along College Avenue, there is no requirement to provide
pedestrian crossings at this intersection. However, ADA compliant crossings should be
provided at the driveway for the Cambridge Hall Apartment complex that is immediately
adjacent to this intersection. Additionally, sidewalk should be constructed on the east
side of the driveway to continue the pedestrian path along the south side of Rosedale
Avenue. There is evidence of existing pedestrian traffic at this location due to a path
worn in the grass.

South Wayne Street & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS A. The existing
sidewalk transitions from the south side of Rosedale Avenue to the north side at South
Wayne Street. An existing painted crosswalk is located on the eastern side of the
intersection crossing Rosedale Avenue. However, the pavement markings are faded
and should be repainted. In addition, since this is a mid-block pedestrian crossing,
advance warning signs should be installed on both the eastbound and westbound
approaches to warn drivers of the potential for pedestrians crossing the street. It is
recommended that rectangular rapid flash beacons (RRFBs) be installed at the crossing
with pedestrian actuation, either active (pushbutton) or passive (sensors, video
detection, etc.), to draw attention to pedestrians within the roadway. Decorative
pavement or a raised crossing could further improve the safety of pedestrians at this
location. In addition, the existing curb ramps at the intersection are not ADA compliant.
The ramps on the northeast and southeast corners of the intersection should be
upgraded.

South New Street & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS B. Upgrades
are required to the pedestrian facilities as no ADA compliant curb ramps are present at
this intersection. Signal equipment upgrades should be installed including pedestrian
push buttons and pedestrian signals with countdown timers. Since no pedestrian




                                            8
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                      February 2014


facilities are present on the southwest corner, the existing pedestrian restrictions should
remain.

Roslyn Avenue & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS A. The existing
curb ramps are not ADA compliant and should be upgraded. In addition, pavement
markings should be installed for the pedestrian crossing of Roslyn Avenue.

South Church Street (northern leg) & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS B. Although
there are painted crosswalks at the intersection, the existing markings are faded and
should be repainted. The existing curb ramps are non-compliant and should be
upgraded accordingly.

South Church Street (southern leg) & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS A.           ADA
compliant curb ramps are required for the crossing of South Church Street.

Ceredo Avenue & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS A. The existing
curb ramps crossing Ceredo Avenue should be upgraded to be ADA compliant.

South High Street & West Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS C. The existing
crosswalks have faded and should be repainted. The signalized intersection has
pedestrian signals that should be upgraded to pedestrian countdown timers. In addition,
there are three pedestrian pushbuttons with associated signage that should be upgraded
to meet current standards.

Sharon Alley & East Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS A. Curb ramps
should be upgraded to be ADA compliant. Painted crosswalks should be installed
crossing Sharon Alley and the manholes should be adjusted so the rims are flush with
the pavement.

South Walnut Street & East Rosedale Avenue
This intersection functions acceptably in the future condition with a LOS A. ADA
compliant curb ramps should be installed crossing South Walnut Street on both sides of
Rosedale Avenue.

South Matlack Street & East Rosedale Avenue
Although the overall level of service at this intersection is within acceptable parameters
(LOS C), the northbound left turn movement experiences heavy delay with a LOS D.
There is an excessively high volume of left turning vehicles during the PM peak hour that
is disproportionate to the rest of the volumes at the intersection. A traffic signal warrant
analysis was conducted in accordance with PennDOT Publication 46, Engineering and
Traffic Studies, Subchapter 4.3 "Traffic Signal Warrants and Engineering Studies".
Signal warrant 3 (peak hour volume warrant) was examined utilizing projected 2018
traffic volumes. According to Publication 46, the volumes satisfy the requirements for



                                             9
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                   February 2014


signalization. The detailed signal warrant analysis is included in Appendix E. With the
implementation of this improvement, the overall level of service is improved to LOS B
and the northbound approach is improved to LOS B.

New ADA compliant sidewalk should be installed between South Matlack Street and
South Walnut Street on the northern side of Rosedale Avenue. Upgraded curb ramps
should be installed on all corners of the intersection. Existing crosswalks are faded and
should be repainted to increase visibility. Update the crosswalk markings crossing the
northern leg to be consistent with the remainder of the intersection. New sidewalk must
also be installed on the northern side of Rosedale Avenue between South Matlack Street
and South Franklin Street to be compliant.

South Franklin Street & East Rosedale Avenue
The existing asphalt sidewalk on the northern side of Rosedale Avenue that continues
around the corner onto South Franklin Street should be replaced as it is damaged, the
width is only three feet, and the cross slope is not compliant. Upgraded curb ramps
should be installed on the northern side of Rosedale Avenue for the crossing of Franklin
Street.

A summary of the level of service analysis for the Future 2018 condition with the
implementation of the recommended improvements identified above for the two
intersections that required capacity mitigation is provided in Table 2: Future 2018 Build
Level of Service and Delays and on Figure 6: 2018 Future Conditions Peak Hour
LOS. The detailed analysis reports are provided in Appendix F.

Table 2: Future 2018 Build Level of Service and Delays
                                                     Future Build 2018
                                                      PM Peak Hour
                   Intersection
                                                           LOS
                                                    (Delay in seconds)
     PA Route 52 & W Rosedale Ave                         A (9.8)
     S Matlack St & E Rosedale Ave                        B (14.0)




                                           10
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                      February 2014


Alternative Improvements

Other improvements were identified that could be implemented in lieu of, or in
conjunction with, the recommended signalization of both PA Route 52 and South
Matlack Street. These alternative improvements are described in more detail below.

Upgrade of Tigue Road and Stadium Drive

There are existing 18-20 foot roadways between PA Route 52 and South New Street
(Tigue Road) and South New Street and South High Street that traverse through the
Robert B. Gordon Natural Area for Environmental Studies, known as Stadium Drive.
The upgrade of these roadways could alleviate traffic on Rosedale Avenue as it would
provide a direct connection between the residential areas southwest of West Chester
and the US 202/SR 322 interchange. The roadways would likely require a major
upgrade as the existing roads are in poor condition and are not wide enough to
accommodate two-way traffic with the appropriate lane and shoulder widths.
Consideration must be given to the likelihood of high environmental impacts with this
alignment due to the location of Stadium Drive within the Nature Area. Although this
alternative may provide the highest diversion of traffic from Rosedale Avenue, it may
also provide the highest environmental impacts. Additional studies must be done to
identify the effect that this improvement would have on the Nature Area to determine if
this option is feasible.

Another consideration with this alternative improvement is the Stadium Drive intersection
with South High Street. The existing unsignalized intersection provides an ideal location
for traffic traveling eastbound on Stadium Drive to access both northbound and
southbound US 202. However, additional accommodations must be made for traffic
exiting southbound US 202 to provide access to the Stadium Drive connector. One
alternative to consider would be a "slip ramp" off the existing northbound SR 322 off
ramp that would tie in across from Stadium Drive for traffic destined for South New
Street or Lenape Road (PA 52). This would likely require signalization of this
intersection and an upgrade of the existing offramp. The location of the proposed
alternative improvement is provided in Figure 7. The approximate cost of this
improvement is $4,574,500. This estimate includes only the roadway construction costs
and does not include the cost of an environmental study that will have to be performed to
determine the impacts within the Nature Area. This is the preferred alternative to
alleviate congestion along the Rosedale Avenue Corridor.            The traffic volumes
associated with this alternative and the corresponding levels of service at each
intersection are provided in Appendix G.

Create one-way pairs around campus

The "city block" layout of the roadways surrounding the University campus provide a
unique opportunity to revise them to one-way pairs in order to increase the capacity of
the existing roadways. In particular, Rosedale Avenue (EB) and Sharpless Street (WB)
could provide one of the one-way pairs and High Street (NB) and New Street (SB) could
provide the other one-way pair. By removing one of the directional traffic flows, it
reduces the conflicts at the existing intersections and provides better signal coordination.
In addition, a new southbound right-turn lane would be required along New Street at the



                                            11
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                   February 2014


intersection with Rosedale Avenue. This could be accomplished with the removal of
some of the on-street parking in the vicinity of the intersection and installation of new
pavement markings within the existing cartway width. If desired, two eastbound lanes
could be provided along Rosedale Avenue between New Street and High Street, with a
left turn only lane drop at High Street. Signing becomes extremely important when
implementing an improvement of this nature so as to appropriately direct traffic around
the campus. The roadways identified for this alternative improvement are shown in
Figure 8. The approximate cost of this improvement is $94,650. The traffic volumes
associated with this alternative and the corresponding levels of service at each
intersection are provided in Appendix G.

Rosedale Avenue Extension to South Bolmar Street/Westtown Road

This project also included the investigation of extending Rosedale Avenue east across
South Bolmar Street to intersect with Westtown Road. After reviewing the study area
with respect to traffic and environmental constraints, we offer the following
considerations:

       If the extension were constructed, there is a potential to increase the through
       traffic along Rosedale Avenue that could jeopardize the safety of the existing
       pedestrians along the corridor.
       The skewed alignment at East Rosedale Avenue and South Franklin Street
       would require split phase timing if a traffic signal were to be installed at this
       location. This would cause increased delay along the Rosedale Avenue corridor
       Coordination and approval with the existing rail line would be required.
       A cursory review of FEMA floodplain maps identified the area between Rosedale
       Avenue and South Bolmar Street as being within a floodplain, which could
       substantially increase the cost of permitting, constructing and maintaining the
       proposed roadway.
       Due to the location of existing buildings and parking areas, the alignment of the
       connection to Westtown Road would likely parallel and/or cross the existing
       stream channel located between the developments along Autopark Boulevard
       and East Nields Street. This would require either the relocation of the stream or
       construction of numerous bridge structures to carry the roadway over the stream.
       This could substantially increase the cost of this improvement and require a
       lengthy environmental permitting process.

If the extension were constructed, it is recommended t limit the Rosedale Avenue
extension to South Bolmar Street. This would require vehicles destined to the north to
utilize East Nields Street to access the existing signal at Westtown Road and vehicles
destined to the south to utilize either Autopark Boulevard or continue along South
Bolmar Street to South Concord Road. The only available land area to continue the
extension out to Westtown Road without having substantial right-of-way and property
impacts is within an identified floodplain along an existing creek. The location of the
proposed alternative improvement is provided in Figure 9. The approximate cost of the
extension to South Bolmar Street is $551,250. The cost to extend the alignment to
Westtown Road is $1,039,900 not including the cost for construction and permitting
through the rail right of way. Additional studies would be necessary to determine the
impact this extension would have on the following intersections:


                                           12
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                      February 2014


    1.   Bolmar Street & Rosedale Avenue Extension
    2.   Bolmar Street & Nields Street
    3.   Nields Street & Westtown Road
    4.   Bolmar Street & Autopark Boulevard
    5.   Autopark Boulevard and Westtown Road

The traffic volumes associated with this alternative and the corresponding levels of
service at each intersection are provided in Appendix G.

Pedestrian Crossing Between Sykes Student Union and Killinger Hall

There are two (2) existing mid-block raised pedestrian crossings with overhead yellow
flashers between the Roslyn Avenue and South Church Street intersections that provide
linkage from the main campus of West Chester University to the Earl F. Sykes Student
Union building across Rosedale Avenue. The use of the existing continuous overhead
yellow flashing lights is not recommended as it becomes ineffective over time as drivers
become accustomed to the flashing lights and they eventually provide little or no benefit
to pedestrian safety.

One alternative that can be explored would be to replace the yellow flashers with two
rectangular rapid flashing beacons (RRFB) that would be triggered by pedestrians
utilizing either active (pushbutton) or passive (sensors, video detection, etc.) actuation.
This would improve pedestrian safety since the LED lights would catch a driver's
attention and only flash when pedestrians are waiting to cross Rosedale Avenue. The
raised crossings could also be replaced or enhanced with decorative crosswalks to draw
attention to the crossing and the pedestrians within the roadway. The approximate cost
of this improvement is $55,700 and would require permitting through Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation.

Another option would be to install traffic signals at each existing crossing that would turn
red upon pedestrian actuation, either through active or passive deployment. Due to the
proximity of the two crossings (approximately 300 feet apart) and to maximize efficiency,
stop bars could be installed west of the western crossing for the eastbound lane and
east of the eastern crossing for the westbound lane which would allow the entire area
between the crossings to be used by pedestrians. This would eliminate the need for the
existing railing on the south side of Rosedale Avenue and provide a large pedestrian
area to allow a maximum number of pedestrians to cross in a shorter timeframe. A
raised crossing and/or decorative pavement could be used within the pedestrian area to
increase awareness and visibility. The traffic signal would remain green on Rosedale
Avenue when no pedestrians are present. This unique option should be discussed with
PennDOT as the situation is in an unusually high pedestrian area. The approximate cost
of this improvement is $265,700.

An additional option would be the construction of an elevated pedestrian overpass that
would allow pedestrians free movement without conflicting with vehicular traffic along
Rosedale Avenue. The entrance to the student union building is already at a higher
elevation than the roadway, so it provides the opportunity to carry that elevation across
the roadway and tie into the existing grade of the campus on the north side of Rosedale
Avenue. Pedestrian access would be restricted across Rosedale Avenue in this area



                                            13
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                     February 2014


with the use of fencing or some other deterrent while the on-street parking restrictions in
the vicinity of the existing crosswalks would be removed, providing additional parking for
students and faculty. The location of the proposed alternative improvement is provided
in Figure 10. The approximate cost of this improvement is $523,200.

Improve Pleasant Grove Road

Another option that was discussed in planning meetings was the use of West Pleasant
Grove Road to provide access to US 202/322. Eastbound Pleasant Grove Road is
currently restricted to allow only the southbound movement onto US 202/322 via a ramp
with a yield condition. Similarly, westbound Pleasant Grove Road traffic must turn right
to continue northbound on US 202/322 via a stop-controlled intersection. For this to be
a viable alternative, all movements must be allowed at this intersection which would
likely require signalization. The nearest signal to the north is approximately 1250 feet at
Skiles Boulevard and the adjacent signal to the south is approximately 3150 feet at West
Street Road (S.R. 0926). Pleasant Grove Road from South New Street to US 202/322 is
a two lane roadway approximately 18 feet in width. The posted speed limit is 35mph.
The roadway would have to be widened to provide adequate lane widths and shoulders.
Additionally, the roadway would likely require a major upgrade as the existing road is in
poor condition.

The current alignment of Pleasant Grove Road with a terminus at South New Street
would likely not provide much congestion relief for Rosedale Avenue since traffic west of
Lenape Road would have a difficult travel path to access Pleasant Grove Road. For this
to be a viable option, it is recommended that Pleasant Grove Road be extended to South
Birmingham Road. This improvement would have to be further investigated as there are
possible environmental impacts due to the existing waterway (Radley Run) in the vicinity
of the proposed extension. The construction costs for this improvement may be high
due to bridge structures that would be required to carry the extension over the stream
channel. The location of the proposed alternative improvement is provided in Figure 11.
The approximate cost of just improving Pleasant Grove Road and providing a full-access
signalized intersection is $2,065,700. The approximate cost to extend to South
Birmingham Road is $1,613,800. The traffic volumes associated with this alternative
and the corresponding levels of service at each intersection are provided in Appendix
G.

Improve West Street Road (S.R. 0926)

West Street Road is a good route for those destined for southbound US 202/322 as it
provides a direct connection from Creek Road. However, it is likely that those destined
for the north would still use Rosedale Avenue or other roadways within the Borough.
Although this route may not divert traffic from Rosedale Avenue, the corridor could still
be utilized for access and should be considered for future improvement. The existing
two-lane roadway has a posted speed limit of 45mph and is approximately 21 feet in
width. The roadway should be widened to provide appropriate lane and shoulder widths.
The intersection of S.R. 0926 and US 202/322 is already planned for upgrades
beginning in Fiscal Year 2017. The location of the proposed alternative improvement is
provided in Figure 12. The approximate cost of this improvement is $3,498,000. The




                                            14
Corridor Feasibility Study
Rosedale Avenue Corridor, West Chester Borough                                       February 2014


traffic volumes associated with this alternative and the corresponding levels of service at
each intersection are provided in Appendix G.

CONCLUSIONS
With the installation of the traffic signals at PA Route 52 and Matlack Street, all
intersections and approaches studied will operate at LOS D or better. However, those
improvements will not divert any of the existing or future traffic volume from the roadway.
The pedestrian enhancements identified in the report will provide a safer walking
environment along the corridor for pedestrian traffic. Discussions should begin with
PennDOT regarding the feasibility of installing pedestrian and traffic signals at the
identified locations on Rosedale Avenue.

In order to provide traffic relief along Rosedale Avenue, it is recommended that Tigue
Road and Stadium Drive be improved and upgraded to provide a connection from PA
Route 52 to the US 202/322 interchange. Additional studies would be required to
determine the exact impact of this alternative on the existing Nature Area. Although the
alternative will likely have high environmental impacts, it would provide the highest traffic
diversion and relief for Rosedale Avenue.




                                             15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pleasant Grove Rd
                                                                                                                                                                      Connection to          Improve Pleasant                                   Improve S.R. 0926
                                                                        Rosedale Avenue                             Stadium Drive            One Way Pairs                                                               Extension to 
                                                                                                                                                                      Bolmar Street            Grove Road                                      (West Street Road)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Birmingham Road
                   Intersection
                                                     Existing 2013       Future No Build        Future Build         Future Build             Future Build             Future Build             Future Build             Future Build             Future Build
                                                   PM Peak Hour LOS     PM Peak Hour LOS     PM Peak Hour LOS     PM Peak Hour LOS         PM Peak Hour LOS         PM Peak Hour LOS         PM Peak Hour LOS         PM Peak Hour LOS         PM Peak Hour LOS 
                                                   (Delay in seconds)   (Delay in seconds)   (Delay in seconds)   (Delay in seconds)       (Delay in seconds)       (Delay in seconds)       (Delay in seconds)       (Delay in seconds)       (Delay in seconds)
PA Route 52 & W Rosedale Ave                            C (15.4)            D (32.1)              A (9.8)          B (13.6) 1/A (8.7)2     D (32.1)1/B (11.3) 2     D (32.8)1/B (11.3) 2     D (30.1)1/B (11.4) 2     D (28.3)1/B (11.2) 2     D (30.9)1/B (10.7) 2
        Westbound Left                                  F (92.1)            F (192.9)             B (13.3)        F (113.1) 1/B (13.5) 2   F (192.9) 1/C (21.9) 2   F (196.5) 1/C (21.9) 2   F (183.3) 1/B (15.1) 2   F (174.6) 1/B (15.1) 2   F (186.9) 1/B (17.4) 2
        Southbound Left                                 A (8.3)              A (8.4)              B (11.3)          A (8.4)1/A (9.5)2              1
                                                                                                                                           A (8.4) /B (11.1)
                                                                                                                                                              2             1
                                                                                                                                                                    A (8.4) /B (11.1)
                                                                                                                                                                                       2             1
                                                                                                                                                                                             A (8.4) /B (13.3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A (8.4) /B (13.0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A (8.4) /B (11.2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2

Brookwood Ave & W Rosedale Ave                          A (0.6)              A (0.6)                                     A (0.7)                 A (0.6)                  A (0.6)                  A (0.6)                  A (0.7)                  A (0.6)
        Westbound Left                                  A (7.6)              A (7.6)                                     A (7.6)                 A (7.6)                  A (7.6)                  A (7.6)                  A (7.6)                  A (7.6)
        Northbound Left                                  A (.4)              A (9.5)                                     A (9.3)                 A (9.5)                  A (9.5)                  A (9.5)                  A (9.5)                  A (9.5)
College Ave & W Rosedale Ave                            A (8.4)              A (8.6)                                     A (8.3)                 A (8.6)                  A (8.7)                  A (8.6)                  A (8.6)                  A (8.6)
        Eastbound Left                                  A (8.6)              A (8.9)                                     A (8.5)                 A (8.9)                  A (8.9)                  A (8.9)                  A (8.8)                  A (8.9)
        Southbound Left                                 A (7.6)              A (7.7)                                     A (7.6)                 A (7.7)                  A (7.7)                  A (7.7)                  A (7.7)                  A (7.7)
S Wayne St & W Rosedale Ave                             A (0.5)              A (0.5)                                     A (0.6)                 A (0.5)                  A (0.5)                  A (0.5)                  A (0.5)                  A (0.5)
        Eastbound Left                                  A (7.9)               A(8.0)                                     A (7.8)                 A (8.0)                  A (8.0)                  A (8.0)                  A (7.9)                  A (7.9)
        Southbound Left                                 B (10.9)            B (11.3)                                    B (10.5)                B (11.3)                 B (11.3)                 B (11.2)                 B (11.1)                 B (11.2)
S New St & W Rosedale Ave                               B (15.1)            B (16.6)                                    B (16.4)                 E (55.6)                B (16.6)                 B (16.6)                 B (16.5)                 B (16.6)
        Eastbound Left                                  A (6.5)              A (7.1)                                     A (6.9)                B (17.8)                  A (7.1)                  A (7.1)                  A (7.1)                  A (7.1)
        Westbound Left                                  B (10.6)            B (12.9)                                    B (11.5)                                         B (13.1)                 B (12.7)                 B (12.6)                 B (12.8)
        Northbound Left                                 B (19.6)            C (21.2)                                    C (21.2)                C (21.2)                 C (21.2)                 C (21.2)                 C (21.2)                 C (21.2)
        Southbound Left                                 C (22.6)            C (23.4)                                    C (23.4)                F (123.8)                C (23.4)                 C (23.4)                 C (23.4)                 C (23.4)
Roslyn Ave & W Rosedale Ave                             A (1.5)              A (1.7)                                     A (1.7)                 A (1.0)                  A (1.7)                  A (1.7)                  A (1.7)                  A (1.7)
        Northbound Left                                 C (18.3)            C (21.2)                                    C (17.2)                B (11.3)                 C (21.6)                 C (20.8)                 C (20.4)                 C (20.8)
        Westbound Left                                  A (8.2)               A(8.4)                                     A (8.2)                                          A (8.4)                  A (8.3)                  A (8.3)                  A (8.3)
S Church St & W Rosedale Ave (North)                    B (11.3)            B (12.4)                                    B (10.9)                 A (9.7)                 B (12.9)                 B (12.3)                 B (12.1)                 B (12.3)
        Southbound Left                                 B (10.4)            B (11.1)                                    B (10.4)                 A (9.2)                 B (11.3)                 B (11.1)                 B (11.0)                 B (11.1)
S Church St & W Rosedale Ave (South)                    A (0.2)              A (0.2)                                     A (0.3)                 A (0.0)                  A (0.2)                  A (0.2)                  A (0.3)                  A (0.2)
        Westbound Left                                  A (8.9)              A (9.1)                                     A (8.8)                 A (0.0)                  A (9.2)                  A (9.1)                  A (9.1)                  A (9.1)
Ceredo Ave & W Rosedale Ave                             A (0.8)              A (0.8)                                     A (0.9)                 A (1.3)                  A (0.8)                  A (0.8)                  A (0.8)                  A (0.8)
        Northbound Left                                 C (16.7)            C (18.3)                                    C (15.9)                B (14.8)                 C (18.6)                 C (18.1)                 C (17.9)                 C (18.2)
S High St & W Rosedale Ave                              B (18.8)            C (20.8)                                    B (18.8)                C (25.0)                 B (19.5)                 C (20.7)                 C (20.3)                 C (20.8)
        Eastbound Left                                  D (36.0)             C(28.5)                                    C (26.6)                 E (60.1)                C (28.0)                 C (28.0)                 C (30.7)                 C (28.3)
        Eastbound Thru/Right                            C (23.0)            B (17.3)                                    B (17.8)                B (19.1)                 B (17.4)                 B (17.2)                 B (18.8)                 B (17.2)
        Westbound Left                                  C (25.6)            C (22.0)                                    C (22.2)                C (24.3)                 C (21.8)                 C (22.0)                 C (23.2)                 C (22.0)
        Westbound Thru/Right                            B (19.2)            B (15.1)                                    B (15.9)                C (23.0)                 B (15.5)                 B (14.9)                 B (15.9)                 B (15.0)
        Northbound Left                                 C (20.9)             C(35.0)                                    C (28.7)                                         C (28.3)                 C (35.0)                 C (31.5)                 C (35.0)
        Northbound Thru/Right                           B (14.1)            C (21.8)                                    B (18.1)                C (27.0)                 C (20.6)                 C (21.8)                 B (19.8)                 C (21.8)
        Southbound Left                                 B (17.5)            C (25.0)                                    C (22.0)                C (28.9)                 C (25.4)                 C (25.0)                 C (23.5)                 C (25.0)
        Southbound Thru/Right                           B (12.5)            C (20.4)                                    B (16.4)                B (13.5)                 B (17.3)                 C (20.4)                 B (18.2)                 C (20.4)
Sharon Alley & E Rosedale Ave                           A (0.4)              A (0.4)                                     A (0.5)                 A (0.4)                  A (0.4)                  A (0.4)                  A (0.4)                  A (0.4)
        Eastbound Left                                  A (8.2)              A (8.3)                                     A (8.1)                 A (8.3)                  A (8.3)                  A (8.3)                  A (8.3)                  A (8.3)
        Southbound Left                                 B (13.9)            B (14.8)                                    B (13.1)                B (14.8)                 C (15.2)                 B (14.7)                 B (14.5)                 B (14.7)
S Walnut St & E Rosedale Ave                            A (0.7)              A (0.7)                                     A (0.7)                 A (0.7)                  A (0.6)                  A (0.7)                  A (0.7)                  A (0.7)
        Eastbound Left                                  A (9.0)              A (9.3)                                     A (8.8)                 A (9.3)                  A (9.3)                  A (9.2)                  A (9.2)                  A (9.2)
        Westbound Left                                  A (8.0)              A (8.0)                                     A (7.9)                 A (8.0)                  A (8.1)                  A (8.0)                  A (8.0)                  A (8.0)
S Matlack St & E Rosedale Ave                           B (15.0)            C (18.2)              B (14.0)        B (13.3) 1/B (13.2) 2    C (18.2) 1/B (13.6) 2    C (15.1) 1/B (13.9) 2    C (18.0) 1/B (15.4) 2    C (17.9) 1/B (14.7) 2    C (18.1) 1/B (10.3) 2
        Northbound Left                                 C (21.3)            D (27.6)              B (10.2)         C (17.7) 1/A (8.3)2     D (27.6)1/A (9.4)2       C (20.6) 1/A (8.8)2      D (27.4)1/B (16.8) 2     D (27.2)1/B (15.6) 2     D (27.5)1/B (11.1) 2
        Westbound Left                                  B (12.6)            B (14.1)              B (18.2)        B (11.9) 1/B (18.1) 2             1
                                                                                                                                           B (14.1) /B (17.6)
                                                                                                                                                               2             1
                                                                                                                                                                    B (13.0) /B (17.9)
                                                                                                                                                                                        2             1
                                                                                                                                                                                             B (13.9) /B (17.0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B (13.8) /B (16.0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B (14.0) /B (11.1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2

        Southbound Left                                 B (11.0)            B (12.0)              B (14.8)        B (10.8) 1/B (13.4) 2    B (12.0) 1/B (15.0) 2    B (11.5) 1/B (14.2) 2    B (12.0) 1/A (8.2)2      B (11.9) 1/A (9.1)2      B (12.0) 1/A (6.4)2
S Franklin St & E Rosedale Ave                          A (7.5)              A (7.6)                                     A (7.3)                 A (7.6)                  A (2.6)                  A (7.6)                  A (7.6)                  A (7.6)
        Eastbound Left                                  A (7.6)              A (7.6)                                     A (7.6)                 A (7.6)                  A (7.9)                  A (7.6)                  A (7.6)                  A (7.6)
        Southbound Left                                 A (9.7)              A (9.9)                                     A (9.6)                 A (9.9)                 B (11.5)                  A (9.8)                  A (9.8)                  A (9.8)
       1
            Analyzed as stop controlled     2 Analyzed as signal
             APPENDIX A

Existing Traffic Count Data
Intersection with Rosedale 
                                                Counts from Previous Studies                                 2013 existing counts                            2018 projected volumes
          Avenue
                                                 AM                       PM                              AM                       PM                       AM                       PM
 Rosedale travels east west
                                               Through                  Through                         Through                  Through                  Through                  Through 
                                       Left               Right Left               Right        Left               Right Left               Right Left               Right Left               Right
                                                                                           NB                                      360       124                                     396       136
     Lenape Rd Route 52                                                                    SB                              27      552                                       30      607
       Counts from 11/12/13                                                                WB                             207                27                             228                30
                                                                                           EB
                                                                                           NB                              1                 12                              1                 13
       Brookwood Road                                                                      SB
        Counts from 5/14/13                                                                WB                             15       239                                      16       263
                                                                                           EB                                      154       12                                      169       13
                                                                                           NB
        College Avenue                                                                     SB                              2                 2                               2                 2
        Counts from 5/15/13                                                                WB                                      151       1                                       166       1
                                                                                           EB                              2       211                                       2       232
                                                                                           NB
       S. Wayne Street                                                                     SB                              4                 5                               4                 5
        Counts from 5/14/13                                                                WB                                      262       4                                       288       4
                                                                                           EB                               3      169                                        3      186
                                                                                           NB                              15      151      135                              16      166      148
          New Street                                                                       SB                             108      159       21                             119      175       23
       Counts from 11/12/13                                                                WB                              97      241      112                             107      265      123
                                                                                           EB                              20      137       19                              22      151       21
                                       25                  4     42                 22     NB    25                 4      43                22    27                 4      47                24
        Roslyn Avenue                                                                      SB
Counts from 2012 study by McCormick 
   Taylor For Roslyn Neighborhood       11       168             29       463              WB    11       171             30       472             12       188             33       519
                                                 421       58             322       52     EB             429       59             328       53             472       65             361       58
        S Church Street                                                                    NB
Counts from 2010 study for WCU         67                  35   105                 54     SB    71                 37    111                57    78                 41    122                63
  Business & P.A. Center (7:30                   194                      311              WB             205                      329                      225                      362
        8:30)(3:454:45)                          349                      249              EB             369                      264                      406                      290
 Intersection with Rosedale 
                                                Counts from Previous Studies                                 2013 existing counts                            2018 projected volumes
           Avenue
                                                 AM                       PM                              AM                       PM                       AM                       PM
 Rosedale travels east west
                                               Through                  Through                         Through                  Through                  Through                  Through 
                                       Left               Right Left               Right        Left               Right Left               Right Left               Right Left               Right
                                                                                           NB
       S. Church Avenue                                                                    SB
        Counts from 5/16/13                                                                WB                             28       454                                      31       499
                                                                                           EB                                      506       79                                      556       87
                                                                                           NB                              8                 27                              9                 30
        Ceredo Avenue                                                                      SB
        Counts from 5/15/13                                                                WB                                      434                                               477
                                                                                           EB                                      472                                               519
                                                                                           NB                              91      404       63                             100      444       69
          High Street*                                                                     SB                              69      373       82                              76      410       90
        Counts from 11/12/13                                                               WB                              39      231       97                              43      254      107
                                                                                           EB                             150      208      119                             165      229      131
          Sharon Alley                                                                     NB
       (7:308:30)(3:304:30)             6                  3      7                  6     SB    7                  3      8                 7      8                 3      9                 8
  Counts from 2008 study by TPD for              213       4              348       12     WB             234       4              383       13             257       4              421       14
      College Arms (0806038T)
                                        3        422             13       335              EB    3        464             14       368              3       510             15       405
                                                                                           NB
        S. Walnut Street                                                                   SB
        Counts from 5/14/13                                                                WB                               1      432       77                               1      475       85
                                                                                           EB                              68      277       12                              75      304       13
                                                                                           NB                             320                85                             352                93
         Matlack Street                                                                    SB                               9       64       21                              10       70       23
        Counts from 11/12/13                                                               WB                              41      124                                       45      136
                                                                                           EB                                      110      101                                      121      111
                                                                                           NB
       S. Franklin Street                                                                  SB                             14                121                             15                133
        Counts from 5/15/13                                                                WB                                      12        11                                      13        12
                                                                                           EB                             163      13                                       179      14
* Counted eastbound left turn volume (113) increased due to demand
                                                                                     Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                        65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                             Suite 100                                                  Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and Lenape
                                                                          New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                Site Code: 13-03030T
                                                                           215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                      Start Date: 11/12/2013
                                                                             Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                     Page No: 1



                                                                               Turning Movement Data
                              Lenape Ave (Route 52)                                             Rosedale Avenue                                        Lenape Ave (Route 52)
                                   Southbound                                                     Westbound                                                 Northbound
Start Time
               Thru   Left           U-Turn           Peds   App. Total      Right       Left       U-Turn        Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru          U-Turn           Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 4:00 PM       116     6               0               0        122            8          54          0            0          62         27     61              0               0        88          272
 4:15 PM       107     8               0               0        115           11          48          0            0          59         30     82              0               0        112         286
 4:30 PM       143     4               0               0        147           10          58          0            0          68         31     79              0               0        110         325
 4:45 PM       134     10              0               0        144            7          52          0            0          59         25     75              0               0        100         303
Hourly Total   500     28              0               0        528           36         212          0            0          248       113     297             0               0        410         1186
 5:00 PM       134     6               0               0        140            6          51          0            0          57         31     69              0               0        100         297
 5:15 PM       153     4               0               0        157            7          53          0            0          60         35     106             0               0        141         358
 5:30 PM       131     7               0               0        138            7          51          0            0          58         33     110             0               0        143         339
 5:45 PM       100     5               0               0        105            7          52          0            0          59         31     93              0               0        124         288
Hourly Total   518     22              0               0        540           27         207          0            0          234       130     378             0               0        508         1282
 6:00 PM        0      0               0               0         0             0          0           0            0           0         0       0              0               0         0            0
Grand Total    1018    50              0               0       1068           63         419          0            0          482       243     675             0               0        918         2468
Approach %     95.3    4.7             0.0             -         -            13.1       86.9         0.0          -           -        26.5    73.5            0.0             -         -            -
  Total %      41.2    2.0             0.0             -       43.3           2.6        17.0         0.0          -         19.5        9.8    27.4            0.0             -       37.2           -
    Car        1009    50              0               -       1059           62         411          0            -          473       238     667             0               -        905         2437
  % Car        99.1   100.0             -              -       99.2           98.4       98.1          -           -         98.1       97.9    98.8             -              -       98.6         98.7
   Truck        9      0               0               -         9             1          8           0            -           9         5       8              0               -        13           31
 % Truck       0.9     0.0              -              -        0.8           1.6         1.9          -           -          1.9        2.1    1.2              -              -        1.4          1.3
    Ped         -       -               -              0         -             -           -           -           0           -          -      -               -              0         -            -
  % Ped         -       -               -              -         -             -           -           -           -           -          -      -               -              -         -            -
           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
              65 E. Butler Avenue
                   Suite 100                                                                                                       Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and Lenape
New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                                     Site Code: 13-03030T
 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                           Start Date: 11/12/2013
   Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                          Page No: 2




                  Lenape Ave (Route 52)
                   Out          In          Total
                   729         1059         1788
                    9           9            18
                    0           0            0
                   738         1068         1806


            1009         50           0             0
             9           0            0             0
             0           0            0             0
            1018         50           0             0
             T           L            U             P




                                                            63



                                                                          62
                                                        R


                                                                  0
                                                                      1



                                                                                293




                                                                                               288
                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                             Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                                                                      0
                                                                                          5
                                                            419



                                                                          411
                                                        L


                                                                  0
                                                                      8
              11/12/2013 4:00 PM




                                                                                482




                                                                                               473
                                                                                                     In
                                                                                      0
                                                                                          9
              Ending At
              11/12/2013 6:15 PM




                                                        U
                                                            0
                                                                  0
                                                                      0
                                                                          0
              Car




                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                775




                                                                                               761
                                                                                          14
                                                                                      0
              Truck
              Ped




                                                        P
                                                            0
                                                                  0
                                                                      0
                                                                          0
             U           T            R             P
             0           667          238           0
             0           8            5             0
             0           0            0             0
             0           675          243           0


                  1420         905          2325
                   17          13            30
                    0           0            0
                  1437         918          2355
                   Out          In          Total
                 Lenape Ave (Route 52) [S]



  Turning Movement Data Plot
                                                                                    Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                       65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                            Suite 100                                                   Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and Lenape
                                                                         New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                 Site Code: 13-03030T
                                                                          215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                       Start Date: 11/12/2013
                                                                            Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                      Page No: 3




                                                            Turning Movement Peak Hour Data (4:45 PM)
                             Lenape Ave (Route 52)                                              Rosedale Avenue                                        Lenape Ave (Route 52)
                                  Southbound                                                      Westbound                                                 Northbound
Start Time
             Thru    Left           U-Turn           Peds   App. Total      Right       Left        U-Turn        Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru           U-Turn           Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 4:45 PM     134      10              0               0        144            7          52           0            0         59         25      75              0               0        100         303
 5:00 PM     134      6               0               0        140            6          51           0            0         57         31      69              0               0        100         297
 5:15 PM     153      4               0               0        157            7          53           0            0         60         35     106              0               0        141         358
 5:30 PM     131      7               0               0        138            7          51           0            0         58         33     110              0               0        143         339
  Total      552      27              0               0        579           27         207           0            0         234       124     360              0               0        484         1297
Approach %   95.3     4.7             0.0             -         -            11.5       88.5          0.0          -          -        25.6    74.4             0.0             -         -            -
 Total %     42.6     2.1             0.0             -       44.6           2.1        16.0          0.0          -        18.0        9.6    27.8             0.0             -       37.3           -
   PHF       0.902   0.675          0.000             -       0.922         0.964       0.976        0.000         -        0.975      0.886   0.818          0.000             -       0.846       0.906
   Car       547      27              0               -        574           27         206           0            -         233       122     359              0               -        481         1288
  % Car      99.1    100.0             -              -       99.1          100.0       99.5           -           -        99.6       98.4    99.7              -              -       99.4         99.3
  Truck       5       0               0               -         5             0          1            0            -          1         2       1               0               -         3            9
 % Truck      0.9     0.0              -              -        0.9           0.0         0.5           -           -         0.4        1.6     0.3              -              -        0.6          0.7
   Ped         -       -               -              0         -             -           -            -           0          -          -       -               -              0         -            -
  % Ped        -       -               -              -         -             -           -            -           -          -          -       -               -              -         -            -
                   Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                      65 E. Butler Avenue
                           Suite 100                                                                                                     Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and Lenape
        New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                                   Site Code: 13-03030T
         215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                         Start Date: 11/12/2013
           Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                        Page No: 4




                           Lenape Ave (Route 52)
                           Out         In          Total
                           386         574         960
                            1          5            6
                            0          0            0
                           387         579         966


                     547         27          0             0
                     5           0           0             0
                     0           0           0             0
                     552         27          0             0
                     T           L           U             P




                                                                   27



                                                                                 27
                                                               R


                                                                         0
                                                                             0
                    Peak Hour Data




                                                                                       151




                                                                                                     149
                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                   Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                 2
                                                                   207



                                                                                 206
                                                               L


                                                                         0
                                                                             1
                      11/12/2013 4:45 PM




                                                                                       234




                                                                                                     233
                                                                                                           In
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                 1
                      Ending At
                      11/12/2013 5:45 PM




                                                               U
                                                                   0
                                                                         0
                                                                             0
                                                                                 0
                      Car




                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                       385




                                                                                                     382
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                 3
                      Truck
                      Ped




                                                               P
                                                                   0
                                                                         0
                                                                             0
                                                                                 0
                     U           T           R             P
                     0           359         122           0
                     0           1           2             0
                     0           0           0             0
                     0           360         124           0


                           753         481         1234
                            6          3            9
                            0          0            0
                           759         484         1243
                           Out         In          Total
                         Lenape Ave (Route 52) [S]



Turning Movement Peak Hour Data Plot (4:45 PM)
           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
              65 E. Butler Avenue
                   Suite 100                     Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and Lenape
New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901   Site Code: 13-03030T
 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com         Start Date: 11/12/2013
   Building on a Foundation of Excellence        Page No: 5
                                                                               Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                  65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                       Suite 100                                                  Count Name: Rosedale Ave and Brookwood Ave
                                                                    New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                Site Code: 13-03030T-EPM
                                                                     215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                      Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                       Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                     Page No: 1



                                                                         Turning Movement Data
                              Rosedale Avenue                                              Brookwood Avenue                                       Rosedale Avenue
                                Westbound                                                     Northbound                                            Eastbound
Start Time
               Thru   Left        U-Turn        Peds   App. Total      Right       Left         U-Turn        Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru       U-Turn        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 4:43 PM       57      6            0            0        63             5          0             0            0          5         4      40           0            0        44          112
 4:58 PM       71      1            0            0        72             4          1             0            1          5         5      36           0            0        41          118
Hourly Total   128     7            0            0        135            9          1             0            1         10         9      76           0            0        85          230
 5:13 PM       60      3            0            0        63             2          0             0            1          2         2      36           0            0        38          103
 5:28 PM       51      5            0            0        56             1          0             0            0          1         1      42           0            0        43          100
 5:43 PM       47      6            0            0        53             4          1             0            2          5         3      40           0            0        43          101
 5:58 PM       52      2            0            0        54             3          0             0            0          3         3      38           0            0        41           98
Hourly Total   210     16           0            0        226           10          1             0            3         11         9      156          0            0        165         402
 6:13 PM       51      2            0            0        53             3          0             0            0          3         2      36           0            0        38           94
 6:28 PM       57      2            0            0        59             1          0             0            0          1         1      31           0            0        32           92
 6:43 PM        6      1            0            0         7             0          0             0            0          0         0       4           0            0         4           11
Grand Total    452     28           0            0        480           23          2             0            4         25         21     303          0            0        324         829
Approach %     94.2    5.8          0.0          -         -            92.0        8.0          0.0            -         -         6.5    93.5         0.0          -         -            -
  Total %      54.5    3.4          0.0          -       57.9           2.8         0.2          0.0            -        3.0        2.5    36.6         0.0          -       39.1           -
    Car        446     28           0            -        474           23          2             0             -        25         21     299          0            -        320         819
  % Car        98.7   100.0          -           -       98.8          100.0       100.0          -             -       100.0      100.0   98.7          -           -       98.8         98.8
   Truck        6      0            0            -         6             0          0             0             -         0         0       4           0            -         4           10
 % Truck       1.3     0.0           -           -        1.3           0.0         0.0           -             -        0.0        0.0    1.3           -           -        1.2          1.2
    Ped         -       -            -           0         -             -           -            -            4          -          -      -            -           0         -            -
  % Ped         -       -            -           -         -             -           -            -           100.0       -          -      -            -           -         -            -
                                                                            Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                               65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                    Suite 100                                                                                                Count Name: Rosedale Ave and Brookwood Ave
                                                                 New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                              Site Code: 13-03030T-EPM
                                                                  215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                    Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                    Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                   Page No: 2




                                                                                                                      452



                                                                                                                                    446
                                                                       U




                                                                                                                  T
                                                   0
                                                         0
                                                             0
                                                                 0




                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                6
                      Total
                              768




                                             778




                                                                                                                                          326




                                                                                                                                                         322
                                                                                                                                                               Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                    10




                                                                                                                                                                       Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                         0




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                   299



                                                                 303




                                                                                                                      28



                                                                                                                                    28
                                                                       T
                                                         4
                                                             0




                                                                                                                  L


                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                               05/14/2013 4:43 PM
                              320




                                             324




                                                                                                                                          480




                                                                                                                                                         474
                      In




                                                                                                                                                               In
                                    4
                                         0




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                               Ending At
                                                                               05/14/2013 6:58 PM
                                                   21



                                                                 21
                                                                       R




                                                                                                                  U
                                                         0
                                                             0




                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                               Car




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                              448




                                             454




                                                                                                                                          806




                                                                                                                                                         796
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                    10
                                    6
                                         0




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                               Truck
                                                                               Ped
                                                                       P




                                                                                                                  P
                                                   0
                                                         0
                                                             0
                                                                 0




                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                              U         L        R            P
                                                                              0         2        23           0
                                                                              0         0        0            0
                                                                              0         0        0            4
                                                                              0         2        23           4


                                                                                  49        25         74
                                                                                   0        0          0
                                                                                   0        0          0
                                                                                  49        25         74
                                                                                  Out       In        Total
                                                                                  Brookwood Avenue [S]



                                                                       Turning Movement Data Plot
                                                                              Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                 65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                      Suite 100                                                   Count Name: Rosedale Ave and Brookwood Ave
                                                                   New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                 Site Code: 13-03030T-EPM
                                                                    215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                       Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                      Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                      Page No: 3




                                                      Turning Movement Peak Hour Data (4:43 PM)
                             Rosedale Avenue                                              Brookwood Avenue                                        Rosedale Avenue
                               Westbound                                                     Northbound                                             Eastbound
Start Time
             Thru    Left        U-Turn        Peds   App. Total      Right       Left         U-Turn        Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru        U-Turn        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 4:43 PM      57      6            0            0        63             5          0             0            0          5         4       40           0            0        44          112
 4:58 PM      71      1            0            0        72             4          1             0            1          5         5       36           0            0        41          118
 5:13 PM      60      3            0            0        63             2          0             0            1          2         2       36           0            0        38          103
 5:28 PM      51      5            0            0        56             1          0             0            0          1         1       42           0            0        43          100
  Total      239      15           0            0        254           12          1             0            2         13         12     154           0            0        166         433
Approach %   94.1     5.9          0.0          -         -            92.3        7.7          0.0            -         -         7.2    92.8          0.0          -         -            -
 Total %     55.2     3.5          0.0          -       58.7           2.8         0.2          0.0            -        3.0        2.8    35.6          0.0          -       38.3           -
   PHF       0.842   0.625        0.000         -       0.882         0.600       0.250        0.000           -       0.650      0.600   0.917        0.000         -       0.943       0.917
   Car       234      15           0            -        249           12          1             0             -        13         12     153           0            -        165         427
  % Car      97.9    100.0          -           -       98.0          100.0       100.0          -             -       100.0      100.0   99.4           -           -       99.4         98.6
  Truck       5       0            0            -         5             0          0             0             -         0         0       1            0            -         1            6
 % Truck      2.1     0.0           -           -        2.0           0.0         0.0           -             -        0.0        0.0     0.6           -           -        0.6          1.4
   Ped         -       -            -           0         -             -           -            -            2          -          -       -            -           0         -            -
  % Ped        -       -            -           -         -             -           -            -           100.0       -          -       -            -           -         -            -
                                                                           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                              65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                   Suite 100                                                                                               Count Name: Rosedale Ave and Brookwood Ave
                                                                New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                             Site Code: 13-03030T-EPM
                                                                 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                   Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                   Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                  Page No: 4




                                                                                                                     239



                                                                                                                                   234
                                                                      U




                                                                                                                 T
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                               5
                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                      Total
                              400




                                            406




                                                                                                                                         166




                                                                                                                                                       165
                                                                                                                                                             Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                                                                                                                                                     Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                    6
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                  153



                                                                154




                                                                                                                     15



                                                                                                                                   15
                                                                      T
                                                        1
                                                            0




                                                                                                                 L


                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                              05/14/2013 4:43 PM
                              165




                                            166




                                                                                                                                         254




                                                                                                                                                       249
                      In




                                                                                                                                                             In
                                    1
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                              Ending At
                                                                              05/14/2013 5:43 PM
                                                  12



                                                                12
                                                                      R




                                                                                                                 U
                                                        0
                                                            0




                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                              Car




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                              235




                                            240




                                                                                                                                         420




                                                                                                                                                       414
                      Out


                                    5
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                              Truck
                                                                              Ped
                                                                      P




                                                                                                                 P
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                             U         L        R            P
                                                                             0         1        12           0
                                                                             0         0        0            0
                                                                             0         0        0            2
                                                                             0         1        12           2


                                                                                 27        13         40
                                                                                  0        0          0
                                                                                  0        0          0
                                                                                 27        13         40
                                                                                 Out       In        Total
                                                                                 Brookwood Avenue [S]



                                        Turning Movement Peak Hour Data Plot (4:43 PM)
                                                                              Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                 65 E. Butler Avenue                                             Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and College
                                                                                      Suite 100                                                  Avenue
                                                                   New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                Site Code: 13-03030T-EPM
                                                                    215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                      Start Date: 05/15/2013
                                                                      Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                     Page No: 1



                                                                        Turning Movement Data
                              College Avenue                                             Rosedale Avenue                                         Rosedale Avenue
                               Southbound                                                  Westbound                                               Eastbound
Start Time
              Right   Left       U-Turn        Peds   App. Total      Right       Thru       U-Turn        Peds     App. Total   Thru    Left        U-Turn        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 5:46 PM       0       0            0           0         0             0          42          0            0          42         51      1            0            0        52           94
 6:01 PM       1       0            0           0         1             0          36          0            0          36         51      0            0            0        51           88
 6:16 PM       1       2            0           0         3             1          41          0            1          42         61      0            0            0        61          106
 6:31 PM       0       0            0           0         0             0          32          0            0          32         48      1            0            0        49           81
Grand Total    2       2            0           0         4             1         151          0            1          152       211      2            0            0        213         369
Approach %    50.0    50.0         0.0          -         -            0.7        99.3         0.0           -          -        99.1     0.9          0.0          -         -            -
 Total %       0.5     0.5         0.0          -        1.1           0.3        40.9         0.0           -        41.2       57.2     0.5          0.0          -       57.7           -
   Car         2       2            0           -         4             1         150          0             -         151       211      2            0            -        213         368
  % Car       100.0   100.0         -           -       100.0         100.0       99.3          -            -        99.3       100.0   100.0          -           -       100.0        99.7
  Truck        0       0            0           -         0             0          1           0             -          1         0       0            0            -         0            1
 % Truck       0.0     0.0          -           -        0.0           0.0         0.7          -            -         0.7        0.0     0.0           -           -        0.0          0.3
   Ped          -       -           -           0         -             -           -           -           1           -          -       -            -           0         -            -
  % Ped         -       -           -           -         -             -           -           -          100.0        -          -       -            -           -         -            -
                                                                           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                              65 E. Butler Avenue                                                                                         Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and College
                                                                                   Suite 100                                                                                              Avenue
                                                                New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                            Site Code: 13-03030T-EPM
                                                                 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                  Start Date: 05/15/2013
                                                                   Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                 Page No: 2




                                                                                  College Avenue [N]
                                                                                 Out       In       Total
                                                                                 3         4         7
                                                                                 0         0         0
                                                                                 0         0         0
                                                                                 3         4         7


                                                                             2         2        0           0
                                                                             0         0        0           0
                                                                             0         0        0           0
                                                                             2         2        0           0
                                                                             R         L        U           P




                                                                      U




                                                                                                                R
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                  1
                      Total
                              365




                                            366




                                                                                                                                        213




                                                                                                                                                      213
                                                                                                                                                            Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                                                                                                                                                    Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                    1
                                        0




                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                    151



                                                                                                                                  150
                                                                                                                T
                                                  2
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                2
                                                                      L




                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                              05/15/2013 5:46 PM
                              213




                                            213




                                                                                                                                        152




                                                                                                                                                      151
                      In




                                                                                                                                                            In
                                    0
                                        0




                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                              Ending At
                                                                              05/15/2013 6:46 PM
                                                  211



                                                                211




                                                                                                                U
                                                                      T
                                                        0
                                                            0




                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                              Car




                                                                                                                                                            Total
                              152




                                            153




                                                                                                                                        365




                                                                                                                                                      364
                      Out


                                    1
                                        0




                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                              Truck
                                                                              Ped
                                                                      P




                                                                                                                P
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                      Turning Movement Data Plot
                                                                             Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                65 E. Butler Avenue                                             Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and College
                                                                                     Suite 100                                                  Avenue
                                                                  New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                Site Code: 13-03030T-EPM
                                                                   215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                      Start Date: 05/15/2013
                                                                     Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                     Page No: 3




                                                     Turning Movement Peak Hour Data (5:46 PM)
                             College Avenue                                              Rosedale Avenue                                        Rosedale Avenue
                              Southbound                                                   Westbound                                              Eastbound
Start Time
             Right   Left       U-Turn        Peds   App. Total      Right       Thru        U-Turn        Peds    App. Total   Thru    Left        U-Turn        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 5:46 PM      0       0            0           0         0             0          42           0            0         42         51      1            0            0        52           94
 6:01 PM      1       0            0           0         1             0          36           0            0         36         51      0            0            0        51           88
 6:16 PM      1       2            0           0         3             1          41           0            1         42         61      0            0            0        61          106
 6:31 PM      0       0            0           0         0             0          32           0            0         32         48      1            0            0        49           81
  Total       2       2            0           0         4             1         151           0            1         152       211      2            0            0        213         369
Approach %   50.0    50.0         0.0          -         -            0.7        99.3          0.0           -         -        99.1     0.9          0.0          -         -            -
 Total %      0.5     0.5         0.0          -        1.1           0.3        40.9          0.0           -       41.2       57.2     0.5          0.0          -       57.7           -
   PHF       0.500   0.250       0.000         -       0.333         0.250       0.899        0.000          -       0.905      0.865   0.500        0.000         -       0.873       0.870
   Car        2       2            0           -         4             1         150           0             -        151       211      2            0            -        213         368
  % Car      100.0   100.0         -           -       100.0         100.0       99.3           -            -       99.3       100.0   100.0          -           -       100.0        99.7
  Truck       0       0            0           -         0             0          1            0             -         1         0       0            0            -         0            1
 % Truck      0.0     0.0          -           -        0.0           0.0         0.7           -            -        0.7        0.0     0.0           -           -        0.0          0.3
   Ped         -       -           -           0         -             -           -            -           1          -          -       -            -           0         -            -
  % Ped        -       -           -           -         -             -           -            -          100.0       -          -       -            -           -         -            -
                                                                           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                              65 E. Butler Avenue                                                                                         Count Name: Rosedale Avenue and College
                                                                                   Suite 100                                                                                              Avenue
                                                                New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                            Site Code: 13-03030T-EPM
                                                                 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                  Start Date: 05/15/2013
                                                                   Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                 Page No: 4




                                                                                  College Avenue [N]
                                                                                 Out       In       Total
                                                                                 3         4         7
                                                                                 0         0         0
                                                                                 0         0         0
                                                                                 3         4         7


                                                                             2         2        0           0
                                                                             0         0        0           0
                                                                             0         0        0           0
                                                                             2         2        0           0
                                                                             R         L        U           P




                                                                      U




                                                                                                                R
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                      Total
                              365




                                            366




                                                                                                                                        213




                                                                                                                                                      213
                                                                                                                                                            Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                                                                                                                                                    Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                    1
                                        0




                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                    151



                                                                                                                                  150
                                                                                                                T
                                                  2
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                2
                                                                      L




                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                              05/15/2013 5:46 PM
                              213




                                            213




                                                                                                                                        152




                                                                                                                                                      151
                      In




                                                                                                                                                            In
                                    0
                                        0




                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                              Ending At
                                                                              05/15/2013 6:46 PM
                                                  211



                                                                211




                                                                                                                U
                                                                      T
                                                        0
                                                            0




                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                              Car




                                                                                                                                                            Total
                              152




                                            153




                                                                                                                                        365




                                                                                                                                                      364
                      Out


                                    1
                                        0




                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                              Truck
                                                                              Ped
                                                                      P




                                                                                                                P
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                        Turning Movement Peak Hour Data Plot (5:46 PM)
                                                                                  Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                     65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                          Suite 100                                                 Count Name: Rosedale Ave and S. Wayne Ave
                                                                       New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                               Site Code: 1303030T-EPM
                                                                        215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                     Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                          Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                    Page No: 1



                                                                            Turning Movement Data
                                S. Wayne Avenue                                              Rosedale Avenue                                        Rosedale Avenue
                                  Southbound                                                   Westbound                                              Eastbound
 Start Time
                Right   Left        U-Turn        Peds    App. Total      Right       Thru       U-Turn        Peds     App. Total   Thru   Left        U-Turn        Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
  4:01 PM        1       0            0            1          1             2          61          0            7          63        42      1            0            0         43          107
  4:16 PM        1       1            0            0          2             1          62          0            1          63        37      1            0            0         38          103
  4:31 PM        3       3            0            4          6             1          75          0            1          76        45      0            0            1         45          127
  4:46 PM        0       0            0            0          0             0          64          0            3          64        45      1            0            0         46          110
Hourly Total     5       4            0            5          9             4         262          0            12         266       169     3            0            1         172         447
*** BREAK ***     -       -            -            -         -             -           -           -            -          -         -       -            -            -         -            -
  5:46 PM        0       1            0            0          1             0          10          0            0          10         3      0            0            0          3           14
Hourly Total     0       1            0            0          1             0          10          0            0          10         3      0            0            0          3           14
  6:01 PM        1       0            0            0          1             0          64          0            4          64        44      1            0            0         45          110
  6:16 PM        1       1            0            0          2             2          56          0            2          58        46      1            0            0         47          107
  6:31 PM        1       0            0            0          1             1          65          0            4          66        38      2            0            0         40          107
  6:46 PM        0       1            0            0          1             2          43          0            1          45        34      1            0            0         35           81
Hourly Total     3       2            0            0          5             5         228          0            11         233       162     5            0            0         167         405
 Grand Total     8       7            0            5         15             9         500          0            23         509       334     8            0            1         342         866
Approach %      53.3    46.7          0.0           -         -            1.8        98.2         0.0           -          -        97.7    2.3          0.0           -         -            -
  Total %        0.9     0.8          0.0           -        1.7           1.0        57.7         0.0           -        58.8       38.6    0.9          0.0           -       39.5           -
    Car          8       7            0             -        15             8         496          0             -         504       328     8            0             -        336         855
   % Car        100.0   100.0          -            -       100.0          88.9       99.2          -            -        99.0       98.2   100.0          -            -       98.2         98.7
   Truck         0       0            0             -         0             1          4           0             -          5         6      0            0             -         6           11
  % Truck        0.0     0.0           -            -        0.0           11.1        0.8          -            -         1.0       1.8     0.0           -            -        1.8          1.3
    Ped           -       -            -           5          -             -           -           -           23          -         -       -            -           1          -            -
   % Ped          -       -            -          100.0       -             -           -           -          100.0        -         -       -            -          100.0       -            -
                                                                            Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                               65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                    Suite 100                                                                                                Count Name: Rosedale Ave and S. Wayne Ave
                                                                 New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                              Site Code: 1303030T-EPM
                                                                  215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                    Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                    Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                   Page No: 2




                                                                                  S. Wayne Avenue [N]
                                                                                  Out       In       Total
                                                                                  16        15        31
                                                                                  1         0         1
                                                                                  0         0         0
                                                                                  17        15        32


                                                                              8         7        0           0
                                                                              0         0        0           0
                                                                              0         0        0           5
                                                                              8         7        0           5
                                                                              R         L        U           P




                                                                       U




                                                                                                                 R
                                                   0
                                                         0
                                                             0
                                                                 0




                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                    8
                      Total
                              840




                                             850




                                                                                                                                          341




                                                                                                                                                         335
                                                                                                                                                               Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                    10




                                                                                                                                                                       Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                         0




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                     500



                                                                                                                                    496
                                                                                                                 T
                                                   8
                                                         0
                                                             0
                                                                 8
                                                                       L




                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                4
                                                                               05/14/2013 4:01 PM
                              336




                                             342




                                                                                                                                          509




                                                                                                                                                         504
                      In




                                                                                                                                                               In
                                    6
                                         0




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                               Ending At
                                                                               05/14/2013 7:01 PM
                                                   328



                                                                 334




                                                                                                                 U
                                                                       T
                                                         6
                                                             0




                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                               Car




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                              504




                                             508




                                                                                                                                          850




                                                                                                                                                         839
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                    11
                                    4
                                         0




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                               Truck
                                                                               Ped




                                                                                                                     23
                                                                                                                           23
                                                                       P




                                                                                                                 P
                                                   0
                                                         0
                                                             1
                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                       Turning Movement Data Plot
                                                                               Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                  65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                       Suite 100                                                  Count Name: Rosedale Ave and S. Wayne Ave
                                                                    New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                Site Code: 1303030T-EPM
                                                                     215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                      Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                       Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                     Page No: 3




                                                       Turning Movement Peak Hour Data (4:01 PM)
                             S. Wayne Avenue                                               Rosedale Avenue                                        Rosedale Avenue
                               Southbound                                                    Westbound                                              Eastbound
Start Time
             Right   Left        U-Turn        Peds    App. Total      Right       Thru        U-Turn        Peds    App. Total   Thru    Left        U-Turn        Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 4:01 PM      1       0            0            1          1             2          61           0            7         63         42      1            0            0         43          107
 4:16 PM      1       1            0            0          2             1          62           0            1         63         37      1            0            0         38          103
 4:31 PM      3       3            0            4          6             1          75           0            1         76         45      0            0            1         45          127
 4:46 PM      0       0            0            0          0             0          64           0            3         64         45      1            0            0         46          110
  Total       5       4            0            5          9             4         262           0            12        266       169      3            0            1         172         447
Approach %   55.6    44.4          0.0           -         -            1.5        98.5          0.0           -         -        98.3     1.7          0.0           -         -            -
 Total %      1.1     0.9          0.0           -        2.0           0.9        58.6          0.0           -       59.5       37.8     0.7          0.0           -       38.5           -
   PHF       0.417   0.333        0.000          -       0.375         0.500       0.873        0.000          -       0.875      0.939   0.750        0.000          -       0.935       0.880
   Car        5       4            0             -         9             4         259           0             -        263       164      3            0             -        167         439
  % Car      100.0   100.0          -            -       100.0         100.0       98.9           -            -       98.9       97.0    100.0          -            -       97.1         98.2
  Truck       0       0            0             -         0             0          3            0             -         3         5       0            0             -         5            8
 % Truck      0.0     0.0           -            -        0.0           0.0         1.1           -            -        1.1        3.0     0.0           -            -        2.9          1.8
   Ped         -       -            -           5          -             -           -            -           12         -          -       -            -           1          -            -
  % Ped        -       -            -          100.0       -             -           -            -          100.0       -          -       -            -          100.0       -            -
                                                                           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                              65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                   Suite 100                                                                                               Count Name: Rosedale Ave and S. Wayne Ave
                                                                New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                             Site Code: 1303030T-EPM
                                                                 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                   Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                   Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                  Page No: 4




                                                                                 S. Wayne Avenue [N]
                                                                                 Out       In       Total
                                                                                 7         9         16
                                                                                 0         0         0
                                                                                 0         0         0
                                                                                 7         9         16


                                                                             5         4        0           0
                                                                             0         0        0           0
                                                                             0         0        0           5
                                                                             5         4        0           5
                                                                             R         L        U           P




                                                                      U




                                                                                                                R
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                      Total
                              431




                                            439




                                                                                                                                         173




                                                                                                                                                       168
                                                                                                                                                             Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                                                                                                                                                     Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                    8
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                    262



                                                                                                                                   259
                                                                                                                T
                                                  3
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                3
                                                                      L




                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                               3
                                                                              05/14/2013 4:01 PM
                              167




                                            172




                                                                                                                                         266




                                                                                                                                                       263
                      In




                                                                                                                                                             In
                                    5
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                              Ending At
                                                                              05/14/2013 5:01 PM
                                                  164



                                                                169




                                                                                                                U
                                                                      T
                                                        5
                                                            0




                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                              Car




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                              264




                                            267




                                                                                                                                         439




                                                                                                                                                       431
                      Out


                                    3
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                              Truck
                                                                              Ped




                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                          12
                                                                      P




                                                                                                                P
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            1
                                                                1




                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                        Turning Movement Peak Hour Data Plot (4:01 PM)
                                                                              Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                 65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                      Suite 100                                                  Count Name: Rosedale Ave and S. Wayne Ave
                                                                   New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                Site Code: 1303030T-EPM
                                                                    215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                      Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                      Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                     Page No: 5




                                                      Turning Movement Peak Hour Data (6:01 PM)
                             S. Wayne Avenue                                              Rosedale Avenue                                        Rosedale Avenue
                               Southbound                                                   Westbound                                              Eastbound
Start Time
             Right   Left        U-Turn        Peds   App. Total      Right       Thru        U-Turn        Peds    App. Total   Thru    Left        U-Turn        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 6:01 PM      1       0            0            0         1             0          64           0            4         64         44      1            0            0        45          110
 6:16 PM      1       1            0            0         2             2          56           0            2         58         46      1            0            0        47          107
 6:31 PM      1       0            0            0         1             1          65           0            4         66         38      2            0            0        40          107
 6:46 PM      0       1            0            0         1             2          43           0            1         45         34      1            0            0        35           81
  Total       3       2            0            0         5             5         228           0            11        233       162      5            0            0        167         405
Approach %   60.0    40.0          0.0          -         -            2.1        97.9          0.0           -         -        97.0     3.0          0.0          -         -            -
 Total %      0.7     0.5          0.0          -        1.2           1.2        56.3          0.0           -       57.5       40.0     1.2          0.0          -       41.2           -
   PHF       0.750   0.500        0.000         -       0.625         0.625       0.877        0.000          -       0.883      0.880   0.625        0.000         -       0.888       0.920
   Car        3       2            0            -         5             4         227           0             -        231       161      5            0            -        166         402
  % Car      100.0   100.0          -           -       100.0          80.0       99.6           -            -       99.1       99.4    100.0          -           -       99.4         99.3
  Truck       0       0            0            -         0             1          1            0             -         2         1       0            0            -         1            3
 % Truck      0.0     0.0           -           -        0.0           20.0        0.4           -            -        0.9        0.6     0.0           -           -        0.6          0.7
   Ped         -       -            -           0         -             -           -            -           11         -          -       -            -           0         -            -
  % Ped        -       -            -           -         -             -           -            -          100.0       -          -       -            -           -         -            -
                                                                           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                              65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                   Suite 100                                                                                               Count Name: Rosedale Ave and S. Wayne Ave
                                                                New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                             Site Code: 1303030T-EPM
                                                                 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                   Start Date: 05/14/2013
                                                                   Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                  Page No: 6




                                                                                 S. Wayne Avenue [N]
                                                                                 Out       In       Total
                                                                                 9         5         14
                                                                                 1         0         1
                                                                                 0         0         0
                                                                                 10        5         15


                                                                             3         2        0           0
                                                                             0         0        0           0
                                                                             0         0        0           0
                                                                             3         2        0           0
                                                                             R         L        U           P




                                                                      U




                                                                                                                R
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                      Total
                              396




                                            398




                                                                                                                                         164




                                                                                                                                                       163
                                                                                                                                                             Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                                                                                                                                                     Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                    2
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                    228



                                                                                                                                   227
                                                                                                                T
                                                  5
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                5
                                                                      L




                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                               1
                                                                              05/14/2013 6:01 PM
                              166




                                            167




                                                                                                                                         233




                                                                                                                                                       231
                      In




                                                                                                                                                             In
                                    1
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                              Ending At
                                                                              05/14/2013 7:01 PM
                                                  161



                                                                162




                                                                                                                U
                                                                      T
                                                        1
                                                            0




                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                              Car




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                              230




                                            231




                                                                                                                                         397




                                                                                                                                                       394
                      Out


                                    1
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                              Truck
                                                                              Ped




                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                          11
                                                                      P




                                                                                                                P
                                                  0
                                                        0
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                        Turning Movement Peak Hour Data Plot (6:01 PM)
                                                                                          Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                             65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                                  Suite 100                                                           Count Name: Rosedale Avenue
                                                                               New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                         Site Code: 13-03030T Rosedale and New
                                                                                215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                               Start Date: 11/12/2013
                                                                                  Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                              Page No: 1



                                                                                      Turning Movement Data
                               New Street                                    Rosedale Avenue                                   New Street                                       Rosedale Avenue
                               Southbound                                      Westbound                                       Northbound                                         Eastbound
Start Time                                            App.                                             App.                                           App.                                               App.
               Right   Thru   Left   U-Turn   Peds            Right   Thru    Left    U-Turn   Peds            Right   Thru   Left   U-Turn   Peds            Right      Thru    Left    U-Turn   Peds           Int. Total
                                                      Total                                            Total                                          Total                                              Total
 4:00 PM        7      46     27        0      13      80      20     61      30        0       11     111      25     39      3        0      1       67      3         32       8        0       0      43       301
 4:15 PM        6      43     34        0      7       83      35     50      36        0       1      121      42     44      5        0      0       91      7         34       3        0       0      44       339
 4:30 PM        4      39     28        0      3       71      33     82      16        0       0      131      31     32      3        0      0       66      2         45       5        0       0      52       320
 4:45 PM        4      31     19        0      2       54      24     48      15        0       0       87      37     36      4        0      0       77      7         26       4        0       0      37       255
Hourly Total    21     159    108       0      25     288     112     241     97        0       12     450     135     151    15        0      1      301      19        137     20        0       0     176       1215
 5:00 PM        6      25     22        0      2       53      34     67      18        0       2      119      26     41      5        0      0       72      2         36       2        0       0      40       284
 5:15 PM        4      21     15        0      5       40      35     73      14        0       2      122      31     37      6        0      0       74      2         36       3        0       0      41       277
 5:30 PM        6      31     21        0      7       58      37     52      18        0       0      107      38     43      1        0      0       82      3         37       5        0       0      45       292
 5:45 PM        5      39     24        0      1       68      38     64      24        0       0      126      36     39      6        0      0       81      1         40       4        0       0      45       320
Hourly Total    21     116    82        0      15     219     144     256     74        0       4      474     131     160    18        0      0      309      8         149     14        0       0     171       1173
 6:00 PM        0       0      0        0      0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0      0        0      0       0       0          0       0        0       0      0          0
Grand Total     42     275    190       0      40     507     256     497     171       0       16     924     266     311    33        0      1      610      27        286     34        0       0     347       2388
Approach %      8.3    54.2   37.5     0.0      -       -     27.7    53.8    18.5     0.0       -       -     43.6    51.0   5.4      0.0      -       -      7.8       82.4    9.8      0.0      -       -         -
  Total %       1.8    11.5   8.0      0.0      -     21.2    10.7    20.8    7.2      0.0       -     38.7    11.1    13.0   1.4      0.0      -     25.5     1.1       12.0    1.4      0.0      -     14.5        -
    Car         40     273    186       0       -     499     255     493     161       0        -     909     262     296    31        0       -     589      26        278     33        0       -     337       2334
  % Car        95.2    99.3   97.9      -       -     98.4    99.6    99.2    94.2      -        -     98.4    98.5    95.2   93.9      -       -     96.6    96.3       97.2    97.1      -       -     97.1      97.7
   Truck        2       2      4        0       -      8       1       4      10        0        -      15      4      15      2        0       -      21      1          8       1        0       -      10        54
 % Truck        4.8    0.7    2.1       -       -     1.6      0.4    0.8     5.8       -        -     1.6      1.5    4.8    6.1       -       -     3.4      3.7       2.8     2.9       -       -     2.9        2.3
    Ped          -      -      -        -      40       -       -      -       -        -       16       -       -      -      -        -      1        -       -         -       -        -       0       -         -
  % Ped          -      -      -        -     100.0     -       -      -       -        -      100.0     -       -      -      -        -     100.0     -       -         -       -        -       -       -         -
                                                                            Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                               65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                    Suite 100                                                                                                       Count Name: Rosedale Avenue
                                                                 New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                                     Site Code: 13-03030T Rosedale and New
                                                                  215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                           Start Date: 11/12/2013
                                                                    Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                          Page No: 2




                                                                                         New Street [N]
                                                                                   Out         In     Total
                                                                                   584        499     1083
                                                                                    17         8          25
                                                                                    0          0          0
                                                                                   601        507     1108


                                                                            40     273        186         0     0
                                                                            2       2          4          0     0
                                                                            0       0          0          0     40
                                                                            42     275        190         0     40
                                                                            R       T          L          U     P




                                                                                                                         256



                                                                                                                                         255
                                                                       U




                                                                                                                     R
                                                   0
                                                         0
                                                             0
                                                                 0




                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                    1
                      Total
                              901




                                             919




                                                                                                                         497



                                                                                                                                         493


                                                                                                                                               742




                                                                                                                                                               726
                                                                                                                                                                      Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                    18




                                                   33



                                                                 34




                                                                                                                                                          16




                                                                                                                                                                              Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                                                                                                     T
                                         0




                                                         1
                                                             0


                                                                       L




                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                    4




                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                 11/12/2013 4:00 PM
                              337




                                             347


                                                   278



                                                                 286




                                                                                                                         171



                                                                                                                                         161


                                                                                                                                               924




                                                                                                                                                               909
                                    10




                                                                                                                                    10




                                                                                                                                                          15
                      In




                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                       T
                                         0




                                                         8
                                                             0




                                                                                                                     L


                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                 Ending At
                                                                                 11/12/2013 6:15 PM
                                                                                 Car




                                                                                                                                               1666




                                                                                                                                                               1635
                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                              564




                                             572
                      Out




                                                   26



                                                                 27




                                                                                                                                                          31
                                                                       R




                                                                                                                     U
                                    8
                                         0




                                                         1
                                                             0




                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                 Truck
                                                                                 Ped




                                                                                                                         16
                                                                                                                               16
                                                                       P




                                                                                                                     P
                                                   0
                                                         0
                                                             0
                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                            U       L          T          R     P
                                                                            0       31        296         262   0
                                                                            0       2         15          4     0
                                                                            0       0          0          0     1
                                                                            0       33        311         266   1


                                                                                   460        589     1049
                                                                                    13        21          34
                                                                                    0          0          0
                                                                                   473        610     1083
                                                                                   Out         In     Total
                                                                                         New Street [S]



                                                                       Turning Movement Data Plot
                                                                                           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                                              65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                                   Suite 100                                                             Count Name: Rosedale Avenue
                                                                                New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                           Site Code: 13-03030T Rosedale and New
                                                                                 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                 Start Date: 11/12/2013
                                                                                   Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                Page No: 3




                                                                      Turning Movement Peak Hour Data (4:00 PM)
                               New Street                                     Rosedale Avenue                                     New Street                                       Rosedale Avenue
                              Southbound                                        Westbound                                         Northbound                                         Eastbound
Start Time                                            App.                                              App.                                             App.                                               App.
             Right   Thru    Left    U-Turn   Peds            Right   Thru     Left    U-Turn   Peds            Right   Thru    Left    U-Turn   Peds            Right      Thru    Left    U-Turn   Peds           Int. Total
                                                      Total                                             Total                                            Total                                              Total
 4:00 PM      7       46      27        0      13      80      20      61      30        0       11     111      25      39      3         0      1       67      3         32       8        0       0      43       301
 4:15 PM      6       43      34        0      7       83      35      50      36        0       1      121      42      44      5         0      0       91      7         34       3        0       0      44       339
 4:30 PM      4       39      28        0      3       71      33      82      16        0       0      131      31      32      3         0      0       66      2         45       5        0       0      52       320
 4:45 PM      4       31      19        0      2       54      24      48      15        0       0       87      37      36      4         0      0       77      7         26       4        0       0      37       255
  Total       21     159     108        0      25     288     112     241      97        0       12     450     135     151      15        0      1      301      19        137     20        0       0     176       1215
Approach %    7.3    55.2    37.5      0.0      -       -     24.9    53.6     21.6     0.0       -       -     44.9    50.2     5.0      0.0      -       -     10.8       77.8    11.4     0.0      -       -         -
 Total %      1.7    13.1     8.9      0.0      -     23.7     9.2    19.8     8.0      0.0       -     37.0    11.1    12.4     1.2      0.0      -     24.8     1.6       11.3    1.6      0.0      -     14.5        -
   PHF       0.750   0.864   0.794    0.000     -     0.867   0.800   0.735   0.674    0.000      -     0.859   0.804   0.858   0.750    0.000     -     0.827   0.679     0.761   0.625    0.000     -     0.846    0.896
   Car        19     157     104        0       -     280     112     237      91        0        -     440     131     143      13        0       -     287      19        132     20        0       -     171       1178
  % Car      90.5    98.7    96.3       -       -     97.2    100.0   98.3     93.8      -        -     97.8    97.0    94.7    86.7       -       -     95.3    100.0      96.4   100.0      -       -     97.2      97.0
  Truck       2       2       4         0       -      8       0       4        6        0        -      10      4       8       2         0       -      14      0          5       0        0       -      5         37
 % Truck      9.5     1.3     3.7       -       -      2.8     0.0     1.7     6.2       -        -      2.2     3.0     5.3    13.3       -       -      4.7     0.0       3.6     0.0       -       -      2.8       3.0
   Ped         -       -       -        -      25       -       -       -       -        -       12       -       -       -       -        -      1        -       -         -       -        -       0       -         -
  % Ped        -       -       -        -     100.0     -       -       -       -        -      100.0     -       -       -       -        -     100.0     -       -         -       -        -       -       -         -
                                                                            Gilmore & Associates Inc.
                                                                               65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                    Suite 100                                                                                                   Count Name: Rosedale Avenue
                                                                 New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901                                                                                 Site Code: 13-03030T Rosedale and New
                                                                  215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com                                                                                       Start Date: 11/12/2013
                                                                    Building on a Foundation of Excellence                                                                                      Page No: 4




                                                                                        New Street [N]
                                                                                  Out         In     Total
                                                                                  275        280         555
                                                                                   8          8          16
                                                                                   0          0          0
                                                                                  283        288         571


                                                                           19     157        104         0     0
                                                                           2       2          4          0     0
                                                                           0       0          0          0     25
                                                                           21     159        108         0     25
                                                                           R       T          L          U     P




                                                                                                                        112



                                                                                                                                       112
                                                                       U




                                                                                                                    R
                                                   0
                                                         0
                                                             0
                                                                 0




                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                      Total
                              440




                                             453




                                                                                                                        241



                                                                                                                                       237


                                                                                                                                             380




                                                                                                                                                            367
                                                                                                                                                                  Out
Rosedale Avenue [W]




                                    13




                                                   20



                                                                 20




                                                                                                                                                       13




                                                                                                                                                                          Rosedale Avenue [E]
                                                                                                                    T
                                         0




                                                         0
                                                             0


                                                                       L




                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                11/12/2013 4:00 PM
                              171




                                             176


                                                   132



                                                                 137




                                                                                                                                             450




                                                                                                                                                            440
                                                                                                                        97



                                                                                                                                       91




                                                                                                                                                       10
                      In




                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                       T
                                    5
                                         0




                                                         5
                                                             0




                                                                                                                    L


                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                   6




                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                Ending At
                                                                                11/12/2013 5:00 PM
                                                                                Car




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                              269




                                             277




                                                                                                                                             830




                                                                                                                                                            807
                      Out




                                                   19



                                                                 19




                                                                                                                                                       23
                                                                       R




                                                                                                                    U
                                    8
                                         0




                                                         0
                                                             0




                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                Truck
                                                                                Ped




                                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                              12
                                                                       P




                                                                                                                    P
                                                   0
                                                         0
                                                             0
                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                           U       L          T          R     P
                                                                           0       13        143         131   0
                                                                           0       2          8          4     0
                                                                           0       0          0          0     1
                                                                           0       15        151         135   1


                                                                                  267        287         554
                                                                                   8         14          22
                                                                                   0          0          0
                                                                                  275        301         576
                                                                                  Out         In     Total
                                                                                        New Street [S]



                                         Turning Movement Peak Hour Data Plot (4:00 PM)
           Gilmore & Associates Inc.
              65 E. Butler Avenue
                   Suite 100                     Count Name: Rosedale Avenue
New Britain, Pennsylvania, United States 18901   Site Code: 13-03030T Rosedale and New
 215.345.4330 dmidgley@gilmore-assoc.com         Start Date: 11/12/2013
   Building on a Foundation of Excellence        Page No: 5
                                           McMahon Associates, Inc.
                                          Transportation Engineers and Planners
                                                  425 Commerce Drive, Suite 200
Municipality: West Chester                          Fort Washington, PA 19034                    File Name      : rosedale02w
Location: Rosedale Avenue &                                                                      Site Code      : 81299902
Roslyn Street                                                                                    Start Date     : 9/25/2012
Counter/Countboard No.: LB                                                                       Page No        :1


                                         Groups Printed- Passenger Vehicles - Heavy Vehicles
                         WCU Driveway            Rosedale Ave              Roslyn Street           Rosedale Ave
                           Southbound             Westbound                 Northbound               Eastbound
        Start Time      Left    Thru  Right    Left    Thru    Right     Left    Thru    Right   Left    Thru   Right   Int. Total
             07:00        0        0     1       0       27       0        1        0        2     0       87      6          124
             07:15        0        0     2       1       31       0        4        0        1     0       77     17          133
             07:30        0        0     6      10       32       0        8        0        1     0       92     19          168
             07:45        1        0     2       2       49       0        9        0        1     0      119     21          204
              Total       1        0    11      13      139       0       22        0        5     0      375     63          629

              08:00       1       0       5        7      39       0        5       0       1      0     110      15         183
              08:15       2       0       7        3      42       0       11       0       0      0      81       9         155
              08:30       1       0       4        4      40       0        5       0       1      0      86      10         151
              08:45       1       0       3        7      46       0        9       0       9      0      82      22         179
              Total       5       0      19       21     167       0       30       0      11      0     359      56         668



              16:00       3       0       3        6      73       0       12       0       9      0      56      14         176
              16:15       4       0       4       12      84       0       18       0       5      0      50       8         185
              16:30       1       0       1        5      98       0       18       0       5      0      47      11         186
              16:45       1       0       4        1      72       0        5       0       5      0      41       8         137
              Total       9       0      12       24     327       0       53       0      24      0     194      41         684

              17:00       6       0       3        5      82       0        4       0       6      0      54      16         176
              17:15       0       0       4        5     106       0       12       0       4      0      74      12         217
              17:30       1       0       4       11     107       0       18       0      12      0      57       8         218
              17:45       2       0       3        7      90       0       16       0       6      0      82      11         217
              Total       9       0      14       28     385       0       50       0      28      0     267      47         828

      Grand Total        24       0      56      86     1018       0     155        0       68     0    1195     207        2809
       Apprch %          30       0      70      7.8    92.2       0     69.5       0     30.5     0    85.2     14.8
         Total %         0.9      0        2     3.1    36.2       0      5.5       0      2.4     0    42.5      7.4
Passenger Vehicles        23      0       27      84      988      0      152       0       66     0    1154      205       2699
 % Passenger Vehicles   95.8      0     48.2    97.7     97.1      0     98.1       0     97.1     0     96.6      99       96.1
  Heavy Vehicles           1      0       29       2       30      0        3       0        2     0       41       2        110
% Heavy Vehicles         4.2      0     51.8     2.3      2.9      0      1.9       0      2.9     0      3.4       1        3.9
                                                              McMahon Associates, Inc.
                                                             Transportation Engineers and Planners
                                                                   425 Commerce Drive, Suite 200
Municipality: West Chester                                           Fort Washington, PA 19034                                        File Name                       : rosedale02w
Location: Rosedale Avenue &                                                                                                           Site Code                       : 81299902
Roslyn Street                                                                                                                         Start Date                      : 9/25/2012
Counter/Countboard No.: LB                                                                                                            Page No                         :2


                           WCU Driveway                           Rosedale Ave                       Roslyn Street                     Rosedale Ave
                            Southbound                             Westbound                         Northbound                         Eastbound
    Start Time Left Thru Right App. Total         Left             Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 11:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30
           07:30         0    0     6        6     10                32      0           42        8          0     1      9        0          92                19      111        168
           07:45         1    0     2        3      2                49      0           51        9          0      1    10        0        119                 21      140        204
           08:00         1    0     5        6      7                39      0           46        5          0      1     6        0       110              15          125        183
           08:15         2    0     7        9      3                42      0           45       11          0      0    11        0        81               9           90        155
 Total Volume            4    0    20      24      22               162      0          184       33          0      3    36        0       402              64          466        710
 % App. Total 16.7            0 83.3               12                88      0                  91.7          0    8.3              0      86.3            13.7
             PHF .500 .000 .714          .667 .550                 .827   .000         .902     .750       .000   .750   .818    .000      .845            .762          .832      .870
 Passenger Vehicles      3    0     9      12      22               151      0          173       31          0      2     33       0       392              63           455       673
 % Passenger Vehicles 75.0    0 45.0     50.0     100              93.2      0         94.0     93.9          0   66.7   91.7       0      97.5            98.4          97.6      94.8
 Heavy Vehicles          1    0    11      12       0                11      0           11        2          0      1      3       0        10               1            11        37
 % Heavy Vehicles     25.0    0 55.0     50.0       0               6.8      0          6.0      6.1          0   33.3    8.3       0       2.5             1.6           2.4       5.2

                                                                                   WCU Driveway
                                                                             Out       In      Total
                                                                                   0     12       12
                                                                                   0     12       12
                                                                                   0     24       24


                                                                                  9     0           3
                                                                                 11     0           1
                                                                                 20     0           4
                                                                              Right Thru        Left




                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                         646

                                         681
                                           35
                                        Total




                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                         409

                                                                                                                                         397
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0




                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                                Left




                                                                                                                                          12




                                                                                        North
                           Rosedale Ave




                                                                                                                                            Rosedale Ave
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0
                                  455

                                  466
                                   11




                                                        10




                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 07:30
                                                       392

                                                       402
                                                Right Thru
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                162

                                                                                                                                151


                                                                                                                                                  184

                                                                                                                                                  173
                                                                                                                                 11




                                                                                                                                                   11




                                                                           Passenger Vehicles
                                                   63

                                                   64




                                                                           Heavy Vehicles
                                                    1




                                                                                                                         Left
                        191

                        215
                         24
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                           22

                                                                                                                           22
                                                                                                                             0



                                                                                                                                                          593

                                                                                                                                                          570
                                                                                                                                                            23




                                                                                 Left Thru Right
                                                                                   31     0    2
                                                                                     2    0    1
                                                                                   33     0    3


                                                                               85           33       118
                                                                                 1           3         4
                                                                               86           36       122
                                                                             Out          In       Total
                                                                                     Roslyn Street
                                                              McMahon Associates, Inc.
                                                             Transportation Engineers and Planners
                                                                   425 Commerce Drive, Suite 200
Municipality: West Chester                                           Fort Washington, PA 19034                                         File Name                        : rosedale02w
Location: Rosedale Avenue &                                                                                                            Site Code                        : 81299902
Roslyn Street                                                                                                                          Start Date                       : 9/25/2012
Counter/Countboard No.: LB                                                                                                             Page No                          :3

                          WCU Driveway                            Rosedale Ave                       Roslyn Street                      Rosedale Ave
                           Southbound                              Westbound                         Northbound                          Eastbound
    Start Time Left Thru Right App. Total         Left             Thru Right App. Total        Left Thru Right App. Total         Left Thru Right App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
           17:00        6    0     3         9       5              82       0           87        4          0     6     10         0          54                 16       70        176
           17:15        0    0     4         4       5             106       0          111       12          0     4     16         0          74             12           86        217
           17:30        1    0     4         5      11              107      0          118       18          0    12     30         0          57              8           65        218
           17:45        2    0     3         5       7               90      0           97       16          0      6    22         0           82            11           93        217
 Total Volume           9    0    14       23       28              385      0          413       50          0     28    78         0       267               47          314        828
 % App. Total 39.1           0 60.9                6.8             93.2      0                  64.1          0   35.9               0        85               15
             PHF .375 .000 .875          .639 .636                 .900   .000         .875     .694       .000   .583   .650     .000      .814             .734          .844      .950
 Passenger Vehicles     9    0     9       18       28              382      0          410       50          0     28     78        0       258               47           305       811
 % Passenger Vehicles 100    0 64.3      78.3     100              99.2      0         99.3      100          0    100    100        0      96.6              100          97.1      97.9
 Heavy Vehicles         0    0     5         5       0                3      0            3        0          0      0      0        0         9                0             9        17
 % Heavy Vehicles       0    0 35.7      21.7        0              0.8      0          0.7        0          0      0      0        0       3.4                0           2.9       2.1

                                                                                   WCU Driveway
                                                                             Out       In      Total
                                                                                   0     18       18
                                                                                   0      5        5
                                                                                   0     23       23


                                                                                  9     0           9
                                                                                  5     0           0
                                                                                 14     0           9
                                                                              Right Thru        Left




                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                        746

                                        763
                                          17
                                       Total




                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                          304

                                                                                                                                          295
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0




                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                               Left




                                                                                                                                             9


                                                                                        North
                          Rosedale Ave




                                                                                                                                              Rosedale Ave
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0
                                 305

                                 314
                                   9




                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                      258

                                                      267
                                                         9

                                               Right Thru
                                In




                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                385

                                                                                                                                382


                                                                                                                                                    413

                                                                                                                                                    410
                                                                                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                           Passenger Vehicles
                                                  47

                                                  47




                                                                           Heavy Vehicles
                                                   0




                                                                                                                         Left
                        441

                        449
                           8
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                           28

                                                                                                                           28
                                                                                                                             0



                                                                                                                                                            717

                                                                                                                                                            705
                                                                                                                                                              12




                                                                                 Left Thru Right
                                                                                   50     0   28
                                                                                     0    0    0
                                                                                   50     0   28


                                                                               75           78       153
                                                                                 0           0         0
                                                                               75           78       153
                                                                             Out          In       Total
                                                                                     Roslyn Street
                                                     Gilmore & Associates, INC.
                                                                           65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                          New Britain, PA, 18901
Municipality: West Chester Borough                            Full Service Civil Engineering & Consulting                                       File Name    : EPROSCHU
Intersection: Rosedale Ave & S. Church                                                                                                          Site Code    : 00130303
Time: 4-6 PM                                                                                                                                    Start Date   : 5/16/2013
Counter: DM                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                                               Rosedale Avenue                         Church Avenue                     Rosedale Avenue
                            From North                            From East                             From South                         From West
      Start Time    Right   Thru       Left   Peds    Right      Thru       Left    Peds      Right     Thru       Left   Peds   Right     Thru       Left   Peds   Int. Total
       04:00 PM        0       0         0       0       0         89         9         0          0        0        0       0     10       112         0       0         220
       04:15 PM        0       0         0       0       0         94         6         1          0        0        0       0     20       133         0       0         254
       04:30 PM        0       0         0       0       0        114         8         0          0        0        0       0     22       138         0       1         283
       04:45 PM        0       0         0       0       0        107         5         0          0        0        0       0     30       123         0       0         265
            Total      0       0         0       0       0        404        28         1          0        0        0       0     82       506         0       1        1022

       05:00 PM        0       0         0       0       0        115         8         0         0         0        0       0     15       128         0       1        267
       05:15 PM        0       0         0       0       0        118         7         2         0         0        0       0     12       117         0       0        256
       05:30 PM        0       0         0       0       0        116         8         0         0         0        0       0     15       121         0       1        261
       05:45 PM        0       0         0       0       0        106        13         0         0         0        0       0     20       121         0       1        261
           Total       0       0         0       0       0        455        36         2         0         0        0       0     62       487         0       3       1045

     Grand Total       0       0         0       0       0        859        64          3        0         0        0       0   144        993         0       4       2067
       Apprch %        0       0         0       0       0        92.8       6.9       0.3        0         0        0       0   12.6        87         0     0.4
         Total %       0       0         0       0       0        41.6       3.1       0.1        0         0        0       0      7        48         0     0.2
                                                 Gilmore & Associates, INC.
                                                                                     65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                                    New Britain, PA, 18901
Intersection: Rosedale Ave & Matlack
                                 Full St.
                                      Service Civil Engineering & Consulting                                                                                        File Name         : EPROSMAT
Municipality: West Chester Borough                                                                                                                                  Site Code         : 01303030
County: Chester                                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 11/12/2013
Engineer/Technician: DM                                                                                                                                             Page No           :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Matlack Street                               Rosedale Avenue                   Matlack Street                                              Rosedale Avenue
                          From North                                     From East                        From South                                                   From West
                                        Heavy                                           Heavy                                         Heavy                                         Heavy
Start Time     Right   Thru    Left              App. Total   Right   Thru   Left                App. Total   Right   Thru   Left              App. Total   Right   Thru   Left              App. Total   Int. Total
                                      Vehicles                                        Vehicles                                      Vehicles                                      Vehicles

 04:00 PM        12      20      3         0         35          0     33      7           0         40         21       0    80         0        101        29       20     0         0         49           225
 04:15 PM         1      11      2         0         14          0     29     12           0         41         24       0    87         0        111        33       25     0         1         59           225
 04:30 PM         6      24      3         0         33          0     34      4           0         38         22       0    76         1         99        29       35     0         1         65           235
 04:45 PM         7      11      4         0         22          0     28      7           0         35         12       0    67         0         79        15       28     0         1         44           180
      Total      26      66     12         0        104          0    124     30           0        154         79       0   310         1        390       106      108     0         3        217           865

 05:00 PM         7      18       0        0           25        0     33     18           0         51         27       0    90         0        117        24       22     0         0         46           239
 05:15 PM         3      13       2        0           18        0     25     10           0         35          7       0    71         0         78        24       31     0         0         55           186
 05:30 PM         9      11       1        0           21        0     25      7           0         32         18       0    76         0         94        21       35     0         0         56           203
 05:45 PM         4      18       5        0           27        0     23      8           0         31         22       0    64         0         86        40       38     0         0         78           222
      Total      23      60       8        0           91        0    106     43           0        149         74       0   301         0        375       109      126     0         0        235           850

 Grand Total     49     126      20        0        195          0     230     73          0        303       153        0    611      1          765        215     234     0       3          452        1715
 Apprch %      25.1    64.6    10.3        0                     0    75.9   24.1          0                    20       0   79.9    0.1                    47.6    51.8     0     0.7
  Total %       2.9      7.3    1.2        0       11.4          0    13.4    4.3          0       17.7        8.9       0   35.6    0.1         44.6       12.5    13.6     0     0.2         26.4
                                                Gilmore & Associates, INC.
                                                                                65 E. Butler Avenue
                                                                               New Britain, PA, 18901
Intersection: Rosedale Ave & Matlack
                                 Full St.
                                      Service Civil Engineering & Consulting                                                                                     File Name         : EPROSMAT
Municipality: West Chester Borough                                                                                                                               Site Code         : 01303030
County: Chester                                                                                                                                                  Start Date        : 11/12/2013
Engineer/Technician: DM                                                                                                                                          Page No           :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Bank 2
                        Matlack Street                               Rosedale Avenue                  Matlack Street                                             Rosedale Avenue
                         From North                                     From East                      From South                                                   From West
                                       Heavy                                         Heavy                                         Heavy                                         Heavy
Start Time     Right   Thru   Left              App. Total   Right   Thru   Left              App. Total   Right   Thru   Left              App. Total   Right   Thru   Left              App. Total   Int. Total
                                     Vehicles                                      Vehicles                                      Vehicles                                      Vehicles

 04:00 PM         0       0     0         0             0       0     22      0         0           22        1       0     0         0             1       0       9     0         0            9           32
 04:15 PM         2       0     0         0             2       0     13      0         0           13        0       0     1         0             1       0       0     0         0            0           16
 04:30 PM         0       0     0         0             0       0      2      0         0            2        0       2     0         0             2       0       9     0         0            9           13
 04:45 PM         0       0     1         0             1       0      7      0         0            7        0       0     0         0             0       1       9     1         0           11           19
      Total       2       0     1         0             3       0     44      0         0           44        1       2     1         0             4       1      27     1         0           29           80

 05:00 PM         0      2      0         0            2        0      2      0         0            2        0       1     0         0             1       0      11     1         0           12          17
 05:15 PM         0      2      1         0            3        0      9      0         0            9        0       1     0         0             1       0      13     0         0           13          26
 05:30 PM         0      3      1         0            4        1      7      0         0            8        1       2     2         0             5       0      19     0         0           19          36
 05:45 PM         0      3      2         0            5        1      7      0         0            8        0       0     0         0             0       0      14     0         0           14          27
      Total       0     10      4         0           14        2     25      0         0           27        1       4     2         0             7       0      57     1         0           58         106

 Grand Total      2      10      5        0           17        2      69     0         0           71        2       6      3        0           11        1      84     2         0           87         186
 Apprch %      11.8    58.8   29.4        0                   2.8    97.2     0         0                  18.2    54.5   27.3        0                   1.1    96.6   2.3         0
  Total %       1.1     5.4    2.7        0         9.1       1.1    37.1     0         0       38.2        1.1     3.2    1.6        0         5.9       0.5    45.2   1.1         0       46.8
