MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION



S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL
      S UBDIVISION
           (TM 13-04)
          Public Review Draft




        PREPARED FOR

           City of Gilroy

          October 30, 2013
MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION



S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL
      S UBDIVISION
                   (TM 13-04)
               Public Review Draft




               PREPARED FOR
                   City of Gilroy
    Community Development Department
  Susan L. Martin, Planning Division Manager
               7351 Rosanna Street
                Gilroy, CA 95020
                 Tel 408.846.0219


                PREPARED BY
           EMC Planning Group Inc.
        301 Lighthouse Avenue, Suite C
              Monterey, CA 93940
                 Tel 831.649.1799
                Fax 831.649.8399
           wissler@emcplanning.com
             www.emcplanning.com



                 October 30, 2013


     This document was produced on recycled paper.
                                Community                                                 Kristi A. Abrams

                                Development
                                                                                            DIRECTOR



                                Department
                        7351 Rosanna Street, Gilroy, California 95020-6197
                         Telephone: (408) 846-0451 Fax: (408) 846-0429
                                    http://www.cityofgilroy.org

      NOTICE OF INTENT TO ADOPT A MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
                                (REVISED)
In compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the City of Gilroy has
undertaken environmental review for the proposed Silveira Residential Subdivision (TM 13-04),
and intends to adopt a Mitigated Negative Declaration. The City of Gilroy invites all interested
persons and agencies to comment on the proposed Silveira Residential Subdivision (TM 13-04)
Mitigated Negative Declaration.
Lead Agency:                City of Gilroy Community Development Department,
                            Planning Division
Project Location:           The project site is located at the northern Gilroy city limit, on the
                            south side of Day Road, and west of Cougar Court and Christopher
                            High School.
Project Description:        The proposed project is a subdivision on 15.5 acres, for the creation of
                            55 single-family residential lots and related utilities infrastructure, a
                            two-acre detention/open space parcel, public streets with access to
                            Day Road, a secondary emergency vehicle access route from the site
                            to Cougar Court, and off-site widening improvements within the
                            public right-of-way to both Day Road and Cougar Court. The
                            proposed tentative map is not a vesting tentative map, and site-specific
                            development is not currently proposed at this time. Architectural and
                            Site Review will be required of the project builder(s) when specific
                            development of the project site is proposed.
Public Review Period:       From October 31, 2013 to November 30, 2013 at 5:00 p.m.
Proposed Mitigated          City of Gilroy Planning Division
Negative Declaration is     7351 Rosanna Street
Available for Public        Gilroy, CA 95020
Review at these
                            Gilroy Public Library Reference Desk
Locations:
                            350 West Sixth Street
                            Gilroy, CA 95020
                            City of Gilroy Planning Webpage at www.cityofgilroy.org/planning
Address Where Written       City of Gilroy Planning Division
Comments May be Sent:       7351 Rosanna Street
                            Gilroy, CA 95020
                            Attn: Sally Rideout EMPA, Contract Planner
Public Hearing Dates:       Gilroy Planning Commission: December 5, 2013
                            Gilroy City Council: January 6, 2014
2 
Community Development Department
Planning Division (408) 846-0440

MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION

                                                             City of Gilroy
                                                             7351 Rosanna St.
                                                             Gilroy, CA 95020
City File Number:      TM 13-04
Project Description:
Name of Project:       Silveira Subdivision
Nature of Project:     Application for a 55-lot, single-family residential subdivision, and related
                       utilities infrastructure, a two-acre detention/open space parcel, public
                       streets with access to Day Road, a secondary emergency vehicle access
                       route from the site to Cougar Court, and off-site widening improvements
                       within the public right-of-way to both Day Road and Cougar Court.
Project Location:
Location:            South of Day Road and west of Cougar Court and Christopher High School,
                     at the northern city limits of Gilroy.

Assessor's Parcel Number: 783-16-26


Entity or Person(s) Undertaking Project:
Name:                Glen Loma Group (Tim Filice)
Address:             7888 Wren Avenue, Suite D-143, Gilroy, CA 95020
Staff Planner:       Sally Rideout, Contract Planner, EMC Planning Group,
                     rideout@emcplanning.com

Initial Study:
An initial study of this project was undertaken and prepared for the purpose of ascertaining
whether this project might have a significant effect on the environment. A copy of this study is
attached.
Silveira Subdivision                                 2                              10/30/13
Mitigated Negative Declaration


Findings & Reasons:
The initial study identified potentially significant effects on the environment. However, this
project has been mitigated (see Mitigation Measures below which avoid or mitigate the effects)
to a point where no significant effects will occur. On the basis of the whole record, there is no
substantial evidence the project will have a significant effect on the environment. The following
reasons will support these findings:
    The proposal is a logical component of the existing land use of this area.
    Identified adverse impacts are proposed to be mitigated on-site and a mitigation
    monitoring and reporting program have been prepared.
    The proposed project is consistent with the adopted goals and policies of the General
    Plan of the City of Gilroy.
    City staff independently reviewed the Initial Study, and this Mitigated Negative
    Declaration reflects the independent judgment of the City of Gilroy.
    With the application of the following Mitigation Measures the proposed project will not
    have any significant impacts on the environment.
    The Gilroy Planning Division is the custodian of the documents and other material that
    constitute the record of proceedings upon which this decision is based.

Aesthetics
AES-1. Prior to the approval of a Site and Architectural Review application, the applicant shall
       prepare a landscape plan to provide sufficient vegetation to screen the walls along Day
       Road and Cougar Court as viewed from Santa Teresa Boulevard. The landscape plan
       shall be subject to review and approval by the Planning Commission.
         The landscape plan shall be implemented prior to issuance of an occupancy permit.

Air Quality (Construction-related Emissions)
AQ-1.    During construction, the following basic control measures shall be implemented at the
         construction site:

         1.    All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas,
               and unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day.

         2.    All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site shall be
               covered.

         3.    All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed
               using wet power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry
               power sweeping is prohibited.

         4.    All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 mph.
Silveira Subdivision                                 3                             10/30/13
Mitigated Negative Declaration


         5.    All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon
               as possible. Building pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading unless
               seeding or soil binders are used.

         6.    Idling times shall be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use
               or reducing the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the California
               airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of
               Regulations [CCR]). Clear signage shall be provided for construction workers at
               all access points.

         7.    All construction equipment shall be maintained and properly tuned in accordance
               with manufacturer's specifications. All equipment shall be checked by a certified
               visible emissions evaluator.

         8.    Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the
               lead agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take
               corrective action within 48 hours. The Air District's phone number shall also be
               visible to ensure compliance with applicable regulations.

Biological Resources
BIO-1. To avoid potential impacts to nesting birds, noise-generating construction activities and
       vegetation removal should be scheduled to take place outside of the nesting bird season
       (February 1 to August 31). If construction begins during the nesting season, then a
       qualified biologist will conduct a pre-construction survey for nesting birds to ensure
       that no nests would be disturbed during project construction. This survey will be
       conducted no more than seven days prior to the initiation of disturbance activities
       during the early part of the nesting season (February through April) and no more than
       30 days prior to the initiation of disturbance activities during the late part of the nesting
       season (May through August). If no active nests are present within 250 feet of
       construction, then activities can proceed as scheduled. However, if an active nest is
       detected during the survey within 250 feet of construction, then the establishment of a
       protective construction-free buffer zone from each active nest (typically 250 feet for
       raptors and 50-100 feet for other species) will be clearly delineated or fenced until the
       juvenile bird(s) have fledged (left the nest), unless the biologist determines that
       construction noise would not impact the active nest.
         If pre-construction nesting bird surveys are necessary, based upon the requirements of
         this mitigation measure, then a pre-construction survey report shall be prepared prior to
         commencement of construction activities, subject to review and approval by the City
         Planning Division.
BIO-2. Because the site contains a native tree deemed significant by the City of Gilroy's
       Consolidated Landscaping Policy, the project applicant shall fully comply with the
       measures required by Section 6 of the Consolidated Landscaping Policy. Prior to
       removal of any significant tree, the project applicant shall obtain a tree removal permit,
Silveira Subdivision                                4                              10/30/13
Mitigated Negative Declaration


         subject to review and approval by the City Planning Division, and will comply with any
         tree protection or replacement measures stipulated by the City.
BIO-3. The applicant shall obtain a Habitat Plan permit from the City of Gilroy, prior to
       issuance of a grading permit. The permit shall include, but not be limited to, the
       following conditions:
         Condition 3: Maintain Hydrologic Conditions and Protect Water Quality. The proposed
         project shall provide Low Impact Development features and employ Best Management
         Practices to comply with the Regional Water Quality Control Board storm water
         management regulations, including a bio retention open space area and other landscape
         filtration/infiltration features.
         Condition 15: Western Burrowing Owl. Development and operations and maintenance
         guidelines will ensure that impacts to burrowing owl from covered activities are
         avoided or minimized. Species specific surveys shall be conducted during the project
         planning phase, and potential impacts to occupied breeding habitat shall be mapped.
         Preconstruction surveys shall establish species presence/absence. Project monitoring
         shall be coordinated with other regional efforts. Avoidance and minimization measures,
         including the establishment of a 250-foot buffer zone, shall avoid all nest sites that
         could be disturbed by project construction throughout the breeding season (generally
         February through August). During the non-breeding season, active burrows shall be
         avoided by the establishment of a 160-foot border, and exclusion doors shall be put in
         place for 48 hours prior to excavation. All project monitoring shall be conducted by a
         qualified biologist.

Cultural Resources
CR-1.     Due to the possibility that significant buried cultural resources might be found during
         construction, the following language shall be included on any permits issued for the
         project site, subject to the review and approval of the Gilroy Planning Division
         (pursuant to Gilroy General Plan Policy 5.07):
         If archaeological resources are discovered during construction, work shall be halted
         within 50 meters (165 feet) of the find until a qualified professional archaeologist can
         evaluate it. If the find is determined to be significant, appropriate mitigation measures
         shall be formulated and implemented.
CR-2.    In the event of an accidental discovery or recognition of any human remains in any
         location other than a dedicated cemetery, the City shall ensure that the language is
         included in all permits in accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15064.5(e),
         subject to the review and approval of the City of Gilroy Planning Division:
         If human remains are found during construction there shall be no further excavation or
         disturbance of the site or any nearby area reasonably suspected to overlie adjacent
         human remains until the coroner of Santa Clara County is contacted to determine that
         no investigation of the cause of death is required. If the coroner determines the remains
         to be Native American the coroner shall contact the Native American Heritage
         Commission within 24 hours. The Native American Heritage Commission shall identify
Silveira Subdivision                               5                             10/30/13
Mitigated Negative Declaration


         the person or persons it believes to be the most likely descendent MLD) from the
         deceased Native American. The MLD may then make recommendations to the
         landowner or the person responsible for the excavation work, for means of treating or
         disposing of, with appropriate dignity, the human remains and associated grave goods
         as provided in Public Resources Code Section 5097.98. The landowner or his
         authorized representative shall rebury the Native American human remains and
         associated grave goods with appropriate dignity on the property in a location not
         subject to further disturbance if: a) the Native American Heritage Commission is
         unable to identify a MLD or the MLD failed to make a recommendation within 24
         hours after being notified by the commission; b) the descendent identified fails to make
         a recommendation; or c) the landowner or his authorized representative rejects the
         recommendation of the descendent, and the mediation by the Native American Heritage
         Commission fails to provide measures acceptable to the landowner.

Geology and Soils
GEO-1. The applicant shall incorporate the design recommendations from the Earth Systems
       Pacific geotechnical report (2013) into the design of the project. The recommendations
       are listed on pages 6 through 14 of the geotechnical engineering report and are included
       in Appendix B of this initial study.

Noise (Construction Activity)
N-1.     The following language shall be included on any permits issued for the project site.

         a.   Noise generating construction activities shall be limited to weekdays between 7
              AM and 7 PM and to Saturdays and City holidays between 9 AM and 7 PM. No
              construction is allowed on Sundays;

         b.   All internal combustion engine-driven equipment shall be equipped with mufflers
              that are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment; and

         c.   Stationary noise-generating equipment shall be located as far as possible from the
              adjacent residences.

Traffic and Circulation
T-1      The applicant shall pay the City of Gilroy Traffic Impact Fee to contribute toward the
         transportation improvements identified in the City of Gilroy Traffic Improvement
         Program for the Santa Teresa Boulevard/Fitzgerald Avenue intersection.
T-2      The applicant shall pay the City of Gilroy Traffic Impact Fee to contribute toward the
         transportation improvements identified in the City of Gilroy Traffic Improvement
         Program for the Monterey Road and Fitzgerald Avenue/Masten Avenue intersection.
T-3      The applicant shall be responsible for the construction of improvements to correct the
         queue deficiency for left-turn movements at the intersection of Santa Teresa Boulevard
         and Day Road (east) as identified in the Silveira Residential Subdivision Traffic Impact
         Analysis (Hexagon Transportation Consultants).
Silveira Subdivision                              6                            10/30/13
Mitigated Negative Declaration


        The improvement plans will be subject to approval by the City of Gilroy traffic
        engineer prior to approval of the final improvement plans and the improvements shall
        be completed prior to issuance of any certificate of occupancy for the project.
T-4     The Applicant shall pay the City of Gilroy Traffic Impact Fee to contribute toward the
        long-range transportation improvements identified in the City of Gilroy Traffic
        Improvement Program for the Santa Teresa Boulevard/Fitzgerald Avenue intersection.
T-5     The Applicant shall pay the City of Gilroy Traffic Impact Fee to contribute toward the
        long-range transportation improvements identified in the City of Gilroy Traffic
        Improvement Program for the Fitzgerald Avenue/Masten Avenue intersection.

Date Prepared: October 30, 2013
End of Review Period: November 30, 2013
Date Adopted by City Council: ________



Susan L. Martin, Planning Division Manager
Sue.martin@ci.gilroy.ca.us
               INITIAL STUDY



S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL
      S UBDIVISION
                   (TM 13-04)




               PREPARED FOR
                   City of Gilroy
    Community Development Department
  Susan L. Martin, Planning Division Manager
               7351 Rosanna Street
                Gilroy, CA 95020
                 Tel 408.846.0451


                PREPARED BY
           EMC Planning Group Inc.
        301 Lighthouse Avenue, Suite C
              Monterey, CA 93940
                 Tel 831.649.1799
                Fax 831.649.8399
           wissler@emcplanning.com
             www.emcplanning.com



                 October 30, 2013


     This document was produced on recycled paper.
                         TABLE OF CONTENTS

A.   B ACKGROUND ............................................................... 1


B.   E NVIRONMENTAL F ACTORS P OTENTIALLY A FFECTED ..... 13


C.   D ETERMINATION ......................................................... 14


D.   E VALUATION        OF   E NVIRONMENTAL I MPACTS .................. 15
     1.    Aesthetics ......................................................................... 17

     2.    Agriculture and Forestry Resources ..................................... 21

     3.    Air Quality ....................................................................... 23

     4.    Biological Resources .......................................................... 26

     5.    Cultural Resources ............................................................ 33

     6.    Geology and Soils.............................................................. 36

     7.    Greenhouse Gas Emissions................................................. 39

     8.    Hazards and Hazardous Materials ....................................... 41

     9.    Hydrology and Water Quality ............................................. 43

     10.   Land Use and Planning ...................................................... 48

     11.   Mineral Resources ............................................................. 49

     12.   Noise ............................................................................... 50

     13.   Population and Housing ..................................................... 53

     14.   Public Services .................................................................. 54

     15.   Transportation/Traffic ....................................................... 56

     16.   Utilities and Service Systems .............................................. 64

     17.   Mandatory Findings of Significance .................................... 67


E.   S OURCES .................................................................... 69




                               EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
Appendices (on CD attached to inside back cover)
Appendix A       Tentative Map

Appendix B       Geotechnical Engineering Report

Appendix C       Report of Phase I Environmental Site Assessment

Appendix D       Noise Assessment

Appendix E       Traffic Impact Analysis

Appendix F       Mitigation Monitoring Report




Figures
Figure 1   Project Location ................................................................................. 5

Figure 2   Aerial Photograph .............................................................................. 7

Figure 3   Site Photographs ................................................................................ 9

Figure 4   Tentative Map.................................................................................. 11




Tables
Table 1    Student Generation ......................................................................... 55
A. BACKGROUND
Project Title                          Silveira Residential Subdivision (TM 13-04)
Lead Agency Contact Person             Sally Rideout, Contract Planner
and Phone Number                       City of Gilroy Community Development Department
                                       Planning Division
                                       (408) 846-0451
Date Prepared                          October 30, 2013
Study Prepared by                      EMC Planning Group Inc.
                                       301 Lighthouse Avenue Suite C
                                       Monterey, CA 93940
                                       (831) 649-1799
                                       Polaris Kinison Brown, Senior Planner
                                       Andrea Edwards, Associate Biologist
                                       Teri Wissler Adam, Senior Principal
Project Location                       The project site is located south of Day Road and west
                                       of Cougar Court and Christopher High School, at the
                                       northern city limits of Gilroy. Refer to Figure 1, Project
                                       Location.
Project Sponsor Name and Address       Tim Filice, Glen Loma Group
                                       788 Wren Ave., Suite D-143
                                       Gilroy, CA 95020
General Plan Designation               Low Density Residential
Zoning                                 (R-1) Single-family Residential


Setting

The 15.5-acre project site is located at the northern Gilroy city limit, on the south side of Day
Road, and west of Cougar Court and Christopher High School. Surrounding the project site are
Day Road and agricultural medium-scale uses in unincorporated Santa Clara County to the
north; six rural residences and agricultural medium-scale uses in unincorporated Santa Clara
County to the west; Lions Creek (a Santa Clara Valley Water District facility) and a single-
family residential neighborhood in the City of Gilroy to the south; and Cougar Court and
Christopher High School to the east. Figure 2, Aerial Photograph, identifies the existing and
surrounding land uses.




EMC P LAN NING G ROUP I NC .                                                                        1
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



The site is essentially flat with the exception of a pronounced knoll on the northeastern section
of the property. The knoll is approximately two acres in size and approximately 22 feet high. At
the time of EMC Planning Group's site visits (July 5th and 9th, 2013) the site was unimproved
and vacant of structures. Except for the knoll, which was fenced and covered in weeds and grass,
the site was fallow. The site appeared to have been recently harvested for forage crops (hay or
oats). Two northern California black walnut trees are located within the Cougar Court public
right-of-way, immediately east of the project site. Refer to Figure 3, Site Photographs.


Previous Environmental Documentation

In the fall of 2000, the Glen Loma Group submitted an application for annexation and pre-
zoning of approximately 51 acres, which included the 15.5-acre proposed project site. An initial
study- Silveira Annexation and Zone Change Initial Study - was prepared in October 2002. The
initial study evaluated the environmental impacts associated with annexation, pre-zoning, and
development of the site. A preliminary site layout submitted with the annexation application
included 300 residential units (single-family and multi-family homes) on approximately 51 acres,
and 51,500 square feet of church and school facilities on 8.8 acres. The Gilroy City Council
adopted a mitigated negative declaration and approved the annexation and pre-zoning
application at a public hearing on July 21, 2003.

In 2004 the Gilroy Unified School District, acting as the lead agency, determined that
acquisition of property (including the proposed project site) for development of the Gilroy
Second High School may result in potentially significant adverse environmental effects and
determined that an environmental impact report (EIR) should be prepared to analyze the
potentially significant adverse environmental impacts of the proposed project. An EIR was
prepared - Gilroy Second High School EIR - that evaluated acquisition and development of the 51
acres (including the 15.5-acre Silveira property) as a comprehensive public high school. The EIR
was certified in March 2005.

After 2005, plans were revised to remove the 15.5 acres (current project site) from the planned
high school site. A supplemental initial study/mitigated negative declaration was prepared in
2006 to evaluate acquisition of property and development of what is now the Christopher High
School.


Description of Project

The proposed project is a 55-lot residential subdivision. The project has a General Plan
designation of Residential Low-Destiny Residential and a zoning designation of R-1, Single-
family Residential. The proposed subdivision includes 55 residential lots, a two-acre
detention/open space parcel, public streets with access to Day Road, a secondary emergency



2                                                                     EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                            S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



vehicle access route from the site to Cougar Court, and off-site widening improvements within
the public right-of-way to both Day Road and Cougar Court. Refer to Figure 4, Site Plan. The
Tentative Map is presented in Appendix A.

The proposed tentative map is not a vesting tentative map, and site-specific development is not
currently proposed. Architectural and site review will be required of the project builder(s) when
specific development of the project site is proposed. Supplemental environmental review may be
required at that time.


Approach

The proposed project is located within the City limits of Gilroy and is consistent with the
development densities in the Gilroy General Plan, for which an EIR was prepared and certified.
CEQA Guidelines section 15183 mandates that project consistent with the development density
established by existing zoning, community plan, or general plan policies for which an EIR was
certified shall not require additional environmental review, except as might be necessary to
examine whether there are project-specific significant effects that are peculiar to the project or its
site. In addition, consistent with CEQA Guidelines section 15063(b)(1)(C), some environmental
effects were adequately examined by an earlier EIR or negative declaration and therefore; no
further analysis is required. These guidelines serve to streamline the review of such projects and
reduce the need to prepare repetitive environmental studies.

Therefore, the initial study focuses on the following issues: traffic and circulation (the proposed
project's effect on adjacent and vicinity intersections), noise (noise impacts from the proposed
project on adjacent land uses and noise impacts from the adjacent high school on the project)
and biological resources (the site is subject to the Santa Clara Valley Habitat Conservation Plan).


Other Public Agencies Whose Approval is Required

1.      Regional Water Quality Control Board ­ National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
        System permit

2.      Santa Clara Valley Habitat Agency, Implementing Entity - Habitat Conservation Plan
        (HCP) Permit




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                           3
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




                                 This side intentionally left blank.




4                                                                      EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                        Project Site




                                                                                        Mo n
                                                                                         te r e
                                                                                           y Rd
                                                                 Blvd.
                                                                                                                               d.
                                                                                                                             yR




                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                      sl e
                                                                                                             Le   ave




                                                             Santa Teresa




                                                                            Wren Ave.
                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                         n   Rd

                                                       U
                                                       V
                                                       152                                                                    Gi l
                                                                                                                                  l   ma
                                                                                        GILROY               £
                                                                                                             ¤
                                                                                                             101



                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                             U152




San Francisco
                       §
                       ¨
                       ¦
                       580
                                              U
                                              V   99

                                         Modesto
                 §
                 ¦
                 ¨
                 680


    §
    ¨
    ¦
    280                                      §
                                             ¨
                                             ¦5


                 San Jose         Project
                                  Location
                       £
                       ¤
  U
                       101
  V1
                                             U
                                             V
                             k               152

   Santa Cruz                  Gilroy


                             Salinas
           Monterey


                 U
                 V1                £
                                   ¤   101


   Regional U
            Location
            V
            1



                                                                                                                     Source: ESRI Streetmap North America 2010
       0               1 mile

                                                                                                                                                      Figure 1
                                                                                                                                              Location Map
                                                                                                   Silveira Residential Subdivision Initial Study
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




                                This side intentionally left blank.




6                                                                     EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                                                                              Agricultural Medium Scale
                                                                                                (Santa Clara County)



                                                                                      Day R




                           (Private Drive)
                                                                                           oad




                                                                                                    22-Foot
                                                                                                      Hill




    Agricultural
   Medium Scale
(Santa Clara County)




                                                                                                                    Christopher
                                                                                                                    High School
                                                                                               rt
                                                                                           Cou
                                                                                       gar
                                                                                   Cou




                                                                            Lions Creek (Santa Clara Valley Water District Facility)

            Okeefe Court                                                                      Pueblo Court
                                                           Tapestry Drive




                                                                                              Single Family Residential



                                             Project Boundary                             Source: Google Earth 2012, City of Gilroy 2008, Santa Clara County 2013
              250 feet
                                             City Limits
                                                                                                                                                     Figure 2
                                                                                                                              Aerial Photograph
                                                                                                      Silveira Residential Subdivision Initial Study
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




                                This side intentionally left blank.




8                                                                     EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                                          (Private Drive)
                                                                                    3

                                                                                                                Day R
                                                                                                                     oad
                                                                                1
                                                                                                            4




     Coyote brush shrubs on top of a knoll at                                                                                       View of the project site from the northern
 1
     northeast corner of the project site                                                                                         3 boundary with Christopher High School and
                                                                                                                                    existing residences in the background




                                                                                                    rt
                                                                                                Cou
                                                                                            gar
                                                                                        Cou
                                                                            2

                                                Okeefe Court                                 Pueblo Court


   View of the project site from the southern                                                                                         Walnut tree located within the Cougar Court
 2 boundary with existing residences in                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                      right-of-way, east of the project boundary
   the background




Source: Google Earth 2012                                                                                                                                               Figure 3
                                                                                                                                                  Site Photographs
                                                                                                                           Silveira Residential Subdivision Initial Study
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




                                This side intentionally left blank.




10                                                                    EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                              1
                                                               2




                           (Private Drive)
                                                                        3




                                                                                             et A
                                                                                  4




                                                                                        Stre
                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                        7
                                                          55                                        Stree                        8
                                                                   54                                     tB                            9
                                                                             53
                                                                                       52                                                     10                        Day R
                                                           41                                  51                                                                            oad
                                                                                                         50
                                                                        42                                        49
                                                                                  43                                        48                11
                                                                                         44
                                                                                                    45
                                                                                                           46                                12
                                                                                       Stree                       47
                                             Street C

                                                           40                                tD                                         13
                                                                    39
                                                                                  38                                                   14
                                                                                              37
                                                           32                                            36                       15
                                                                        33
                                                                                  34                                         16
                                                                                              35
                                                                        Stree                                           17
                                                                              tF
                                                   31                                                              18
                                                                   30
                                                                               29                             19
                                                                                                         20                                        Christopher
                                                                   28
                                                                                                    21                                             High School
                                                                                    E




                                                                                                                     rt
                                                                                eet




                                                              27
                                                                                                                 Cou
                                                                             Str




                                                                                            22
                                                                                                             gar




                                                         26
                                                                                                         Cou




                                                                                       23
                                                                                  24
                                                                             25



                                                        open
                                                        space




                                                                                                                                                     Lions Creek

            Okeefe Court                                                                                               Pueblo Court




Project Boundary           Lot Line                                                    Center Line


                                                                                                                                                              Source: RJA 2013, Google Earth 2012
             250 feet

                                                                                                                                                                                     Figure 4
                                                                                                                                                                               Site Plan
                                                                                                                                 Silveira Residential Subdivision Initial Study
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




                                This side intentionally left blank.




12                                                                    EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                           S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




B.     ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS POTENTIALLY
       AFFECTED
The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project, involving
at least one impact that is a "Potentially Significant Impact" as indicated by the checklist on the
following pages.

 Aesthetics                         Greenhouse Gas                     Population/Housing
                                    Emissions

 Agriculture and Forestry           Hazards & Hazardous                Public Services
 Resources                          Materials

 Air quality                        Hydrology/Water quality            Transportation/Traffic

 Biological Resources               Land Use/Planning                  Utilities/Service Systems

 Cultural Resources                 Mineral Resources                  Mandatory Findings of
                                                                       Significance

 Geology/Soils                      Noise




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                       13
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




C. DETERMINATION
On the basis of this initial evaluation:

        I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the
        environment, and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

        I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
        environment, there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions in the
        project have been made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A MITIGATED
        NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

        I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and
        an ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.

        I find that the proposed project MAY have a "potentially significant impact" or
        "potentially significant unless mitigated" impact on the environment, but at least one
        effect (1) has been adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable
        legal standards, and (2) has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier
        analysis as described on attached sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT
        is required, but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be addressed.

        I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
        environment, because all potentially significant effects (1) have been analyzed adequately
        in an earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards,
        and (2) have been avoided or mitigated pursuant to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE
        DECLARATION, including revisions or mitigation measures that are imposed upon the
        proposed project, nothing further is required.




Sally Rideout, Contract Planner                                Date




14                                                                    EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                             S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




D. EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The evaluation of the potential impacts of the proposed project is contained in the following series of
checklists and accompanying narratives. The following notes apply to this section.


Notes
1.      A brief explanation is provided for all answers except "No Impact" answers that are
        adequately supported by the information sources cited in the parentheses following each
        question. A "No Impact" answer is adequately supported if the referenced information
        sources show that the impact simply does not apply to projects like the one involved
        (e.g., the project falls outside a fault rupture zone). A "No Impact" answer is explained
        where it is based on project-specific factors as well as general standards (e.g., the project
        will not expose sensitive receptors to pollutants, based on a project-specific screening
        analysis).

2.      All answers take account of the whole action involved, including off-site as well as on-
        site, cumulative as well as project-level, indirect as well as direct, and construction as
        well as operational impacts.

3.      Once it has been determined that a particular physical impact may occur, then the
        checklist answers indicate whether the impact is potentially significant, less than
        significant with mitigation, or less than significant. "Potentially Significant Impact" is
        appropriate if there is substantial evidence that an effect may be significant. If there are
        one or more "Potentially Significant Impact" entries when the determination is made, an
        EIR is required.

4.      "Negative Declaration: Less-Than-Significant Impact with Mitigation Measures
        Incorporated" applies where the incorporation of mitigation measures has reduced an
        effect from "Potentially Significant Impact" to a "Less-Than-Significant Impact." The
        mitigation measures are described, along with a brief explanation of how they reduce the
        effect to a less-than-significant level (mitigation measures from section XVII, "Earlier
        Analyses," may be cross-referenced).

5.      Earlier analyses are used where, pursuant to the tiering, program EIR, or other CEQA
        process, an effect has been adequately analyzed in an earlier document or negative
        declaration. [Section 15063(c)(3)(D)] In this case, a brief discussion would identify the
        following:

        a.    "Earlier Analysis Used" identifies and states where such document is available for
              review.


EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                           15
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



       b.   "Impact Adequately Addressed" identifies which effects from the checklist were
            within the scope of and adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to
            applicable legal standards, and states whether such effects were addressed by
            mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis.

       c.   "Mitigation Measures"--For effects that are "Less-Than-Significant Impact with
            Mitigation Measures Incorporated," mitigation measures are described which were
            incorporated or refined from the earlier document and the extent to which they
            address site-specific conditions for the project.

6.     Checklist references to information sources for potential impacts (e.g., general plans,
       zoning ordinances, etc.) are incorporated. Each reference to a previously prepared or
       outside document, where appropriate, includes a reference to the page or pages where
       the statement is substantiated.

7.     "Supporting Information Sources"-- A source list is attached, and other sources used or
       individuals contacted are cited in the discussion.

8.     The explanation of each issue identifies:

       a.   The significance criteria or threshold, if any, used to evaluate each question; and

       b.   The mitigation measure identified, if any to reduce the impact to less than
            significant.




16                                                                  EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                           S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




1.     A ESTHETICS

Would the project:

                                                     Potentially    Less-than-Significant   Less-Than-
                                                     Significant   Impact with Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                       Impact      Measures Incorporated      Impact      Impact

 a. Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic                                                          
    vista or degrade the existing visual character
    in the Hecker Pass Specific Plan Area (GP
    Policy 1.07) or the hillside areas (GP Policy
    1.16, GP Policy 12.04)? (1,13,18)

 b. Substantially damage scenic resources                                                                  
    viewed from Hecker Pass Highway or
    Pacheco Pass Highway (GP Policy 6.01, GP
    Policy 12.04)? (1,13,18)

 c. Substantially damage scenic resources                                                                  
    viewed from Uvas Park Drive, Santa Teresa
    Boulevard, or Miller Avenue from First
    Street to Mesa Road (GP Policy 6.02)?
    (1,13,18)

 d. Substantially damage scenic resources                                                                  
    (farmland and surrounding hills) viewed
    from Highway 101 (GP Policy 6.03, Action
    1-H)? (1,13,18)

 e. Result in unattractive entrances at the                                                                
    principal gateways to the City (north and
    south Monterey Street, Highway 152/Hecker
    Pass Highway, Highway 152/Pacheco Pass,
    north and south Santa Teresa Boulevard, and
    at the Highway 101 interchanges at Masten,
    Buena Vista, Leavesley, and Tenth Street)
    (GP Policy 1.10 and Action 1-H)? (1,13,18)

 f. Create a new source of substantial light or                                                            
    glare, which would adversely affect day or
    nighttime views in the area? (1,3,13,18)

 g. Include or require a wall or fence higher than                                                         
    seven feet above the existing grade at the
    property line? (1,13,18)




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                                          17
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




Comments:

a/b.   Scenic Vistas/Scenic Resources. The project site is not visible from Hecker Pass
       Highway or Pacheco Pass Highway.

c.     Scenic Resources from Santa Teresa Boulevard. The proposed project site is located on
       Day Road, on the rural-urban edge of the northern area of Gilroy. The site and
       surrounding areas is relatively flat with agricultural fields to the north. Day Road forms a
       T-intersection with Santa Teresa Boulevard approximately one-quarter mile east of the
       project site. The site would not be visible to northbound travelers along Santa Teresa
       Boulevard as it would be obstructed by residential development and Christopher High
       School. However, the project site, as well as the adjacent high school is visible from
       certain vantage points along Santa Teresa Boulevard (for southbound travelers north of
       Day Road). These views are from approximately one-quarter to one-half mile away
       across agricultural fields. As southbound travelers approach Day Road, views of the site
       are obstructed by trees, and rural residential development. Although future residential
       development of the site would be visible from a distance at some points along Santa
       Teresa Boulevard, the development would blend in with the high school to the east and
       the existing residential neighborhoods to the south at this northern entrance into the City
       of Gilroy. The agricultural fields adjacent to Santa Teresa Boulevard and views of the
       surrounding hills would not be affected by development of the project site with single-
       family residential uses consistent with R-1 zone district standards.

       The tentative map identifies that the proposed residential development along Day Road
       will be bordered by a masonry wall (of undefined height), a six-foot sidewalk, ten-foot
       planting strip. A five-foot bike lane is proposed along the travel lane. Approval of the
       final design, materials and planting plan will be considered as part of the required
       Architectural and Site Review process once specific development of the site is proposed.

       Without sufficient landscaping and design control, the proposed project could result in a
       significant adverse visual effect on scenic resources viewed from Santa Teresa Boulevard
       at the northern entrance to the City. Although future residential development on the site
       would only be visible at some distant points, to ensure that future development would
       not substantially damage or distract from scenic resources as viewed from Santa Teresa
       Boulevard, the following mitigation shall be required:




18                                                                   EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                           S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




      Mitigation Measure

      AES-1. Prior to the approval of a Site and Architectural Review application, the applicant shall
             prepare a landscape plan to provide sufficient vegetation to screen the walls along Day
              Road and Cougar Court as viewed from Santa Teresa Boulevard. The landscape plan shall
              be subject to review and approval by the Planning Commission.

              The landscape plan shall be implemented prior to issuance of an occupancy permit.

      Implementation of the mitigation measure AES-1 would reduce potentially significant
      adverse impacts to scenic views along Santa Teresa Boulevard to a less than significant
      level.

d.    Scenic Resources from U.S. Highway 101. The proposed project site is more than one
      mile west of U.S. Highway 101 and is not discernable from U.S. Highway 101.
      Therefore, the proposed project would not substantially damage scenic resources
      (farmland and surrounding hills) viewed from U.S. Highway 101.

e.    City Gateway. As identified in item c. above, proposed residential development would
      be visible from southbound Santa Teresa Boulevard at the northern entrance to the City
      of Gilroy. Mitigation measure AES-1 requiring preparation of a landscaping plan prior to
      approval of an Architectural and Site Review application and implementation of the
      approved landscaping plan prior to issuance of any occupancy permit will ensure that
      future residential development does not result in an unattractive northern entrance into
      Gilroy, one of the principal gateways to the City.

f.    Light and Glare. The proposed project would introduce new sources of residential
      lighting that has the potential to create a substantial source of nighttime glare. The
      proposed project must comply with applicable Gilroy general plan policies and actions
      and with the City's Lighting Standards which address minimizing light and glare
      impacts. Applicable general plan policies include the following:

           Policy 19.13. Outdoor Lighting. Provide appropriate lighting on sidewalks and
           pathways to protect public safety.

           Policy 19.14 Outdoor Lighting Energy Efficiency. Select outdoor lamps and light
           fixtures to provide energy efficiency as well as effective lighting. Preference should
           be given to newer types of light sources such as Low Pressure Sodium, High
           Pressure Sodium, or Metal Halide lamps that can provide more "lumens per watt"
           as well as a longer lamp life. Lighting controls (such as timers or photo-sensors)
           should be used when possible to turn lights off when they are not needed.




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                          19
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



             Policy 19.15 Glare and "Light Pollution." Require that light sources and fixtures be
             selected, designed, and located to minimize glare and limit light pollution
             (including "light trespass" and "uplighting"). "Light trespass" is light emitted by a
             lamp or lighting installation that falls outside the boundaries of the property
             intended for illumination. "Uplighting" is light that is unnecessarily thrown into
             the night sky. Such excess lighting can affect adjacent residents, passing drivers or
             pedestrians, the natural environment, and astronomical observations. Encourage
             the use of light fixtures that minimize glare and light pollution, specifically using
             hoods and shields to direct the light beam onto the area intended for illumination.

        Compliance with general plan policies and the city's adopted lighting standards that
        address minimizing light and glare impacts will ensure that future development does not
        result in excessive light that adversely affect day or nighttime views in the area.
        Therefore, the impact is less than significant.

     g. Walls. The tentative map for the proposed project identifies masonry walls along Day
        Road and Cougar Court. The height of the wall is unspecified. A noise report conducted
        for the proposed project did not identify significant noise impacts that would require the
        construction of sound walls greater in height than the city standard. Section 34.31 of the
        Gilroy Zoning Ordinance identifies requirements for wall location and height in
        residential districts, and the proposed project is subject to these standards. Proposed wall
        locations, height, and materials are required to be included on landscaping plans
        submitted as part of the Architectural and Site Review application for future site specific
        development. Compliance with the City's zoning standards would ensure that all wall
        heights comply with the City's maximum permitted height. No additional mitigation is
        needed.




20                                                                    EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                           S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




2.     A GRICULTURE            AND     F ORESTRY R ESOURCES

In determining whether impacts on agricultural resources are significant environmental effects
and in assessing impacts on agriculture and farmland, lead agencies may refer to the California
Agricultural Land Evaluation and Site Assessment Model (LESA) (1997) prepared by the
California Department of Conservation as an optional model to use in assessing impacts on
agriculture and farmland. In determining whether impacts to forest resources, including
timberland, are significant environmental effects, lead agencies may refer to information
compiled by the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection regarding the state's
inventory of forest land, including the Forest and Range Assessment Project and the Forest
Legacy Assessment project; and forest carbon measurement methodology provided in Forest
Protocols adopted by the California Air Resources Board. Would the project:

                                                      Potentially    Less-than-Significant   Less-Than-
                                                      Significant   Impact with Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                        Impact      Measures Incorporated      Impact      Impact

 a. Convert prime farmland or farmland of                                                                   
    statewide importance, as shown on the maps
    prepared pursuant to the Farmland Mapping
    and Monitoring Program of the California
    Resources Agency, to an urban use (projects
    requiring a legislative act, such as zoning
    changes, annexation to the City, urban
    service area amendments, etc)? (1,2,32)

 b. Conflict with a Williamson Act contract?                                                                
    (1,2,31,32)

 c. Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause                                                             
    rezoning of, forest land (as defined in Public
    Resources Code section 12220(g)),
    timberland (as defined by Public Resources
    Code section 4526), or timberland zoned
    Timberland Production (as defined by
    Government Code section 51104(g))?
    (1,2,13)

 d. Result in the loss of forest land or conversion                                                         
    of forest land to non-forest use? (1,2,13)

 e. Involve other changes in the existing                                                                   
    environment, which, due to their location or
    nature, could result in conversion of
    Farmland to nonagricultural use or
    conversion of forest land to non-forest use?
    (1,2,13,31,32)




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                                           21
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



Comments:

a.     Prime Farmland and Farmland of Statewide Importance. The project site is
       categorized as "farmland of local importance" and "grazing land" on the Important
       Farmlands Map for Santa Clara County (Department of Conservation 2010). According
       to the map, there is no Prime Farmland or Farmland of Statewide Importance on the
       project site. Additionally, the project site is located within the city limit, is zoned for
       residential uses and is not located within an area identified in the Gilroy General Plan
       EIR as being converted to an urban designation (hatched areas in Figure 4.4-2).
       Therefore, no impacts resulting from the conversion of Prime Farmland or Farmland of
       Statewide Importance would occur.

b.     Williamson Act Contract. The project site is not under a Williamson Act contract and
       therefore, the proposed project would not conflict with a Williamson Act contract.

c/d.   Forest Land. Neither the proposed project site or other parcels in the surrounding area
       are zoned for or in use as forest land or commercial timberland. The proposed project
       would not conflict with existing zoning for, or cause rezoning of, forest land and would
       not result in the loss of forestland; therefore, there is no impact.

e.     Farmland Conversion or Conflict. The project site has been used for dry crop farming
       (hay and oats) and farming activities would cease with acquisition and development of
       the project site. Lands to the north and west of the project site are located in
       unincorporated Santa Clara County and are zoned for agricultural uses. Adjoining
       parcels to the west of the project site are located in unincorporated Santa Clara County.
       A number of the parcels are developed with small ranchettes in proximity to Day Road.
       The remaining adjoining parcels to the west are currently vacant. During the site visit,
       cattle were observed on parcels to the north and east of the project site across Day Road.
       These adjacent agricultural activities to the north are located within 1,000 feet of the
       project site and could generate noise and dust and utilize chemicals that are considered
       nuisances or health hazards to adjacent non-agriculture land uses. The most notable
       conflict that may occur given existing conditions in the vicinity of the project site is the
       potential for livestock odors to carry onto the project site when the wind is coming from
       the north or northwest. However, small-scale livestock operations such as those observed
       north of the site are not considered an intensive agricultural use and they generally do
       not pose a land use conflict at the urban interface.

       This potential nuisance does not pose a significant health hazard therefore, the impact is
       considered less than significant.




22                                                                      EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                            S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




3.      A IR Q UALITY

Where available, the significance criteria established by the applicable air quality management or
air pollution control district may be relied upon to make the following determinations. Would
the project:

                                                        Potentially    Less-than-Significant   Less-Than-
                                                        Significant   Impact with Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                          Impact      Measures Incorporated      Impact      Impact

 a. Conflict with the Bay Area Air Quality                                                                    
    Management District Clean Air Plan
    (BAAQMD CAP)? (15)

 b. Violate any air quality standard or contribute                                                            
    substantially to an existing or projected air
    quality violation? BAAQMD indicates that
    any project that would individually have a
    significant air quality impact would also be
    considered to have a significant cumulative
    air quality impact. (15)

 c. Result in a cumulatively considerable net                                                                 
    increase of any criteria pollutant for which
    the project region is in nonattainment under
    an applicable federal or state ambient air
    quality standard (including releasing
    emissions, which exceed quantitative
    thresholds for ozone precursors)? (15)

 d. Expose sensitive receptors (residential areas,                                                            
    schools, hospitals, nursing homes) to
    substantial pollutant concentrations (CO and
    PM10), as determined in b. above? (15)

 e. Create objectionable odors affecting a                                                                    
    substantial number of people? (17)

Comments:

a-d.    Conflict with an Air Quality Plan/Violate Air Quality Standard/Increase Pollutants/
        Sensitive Receptors. The proposed project would result in air emissions during its
        construction phase and during its operational phase. Construction emissions would be
        generated by construction equipment used during the site preparation and
        infrastructure/home construction processes. Operational emissions would be generated
        primarily by resident vehicles and indirectly by use of electricity.




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                                             23
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



       The City of Gilroy is located within the San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin and the
       boundary of the Bay Area Air Quality Management District ("air district"). The air
       district has published comprehensive guidance on evaluating, determining significance
       of, and mitigating air quality impacts of projects and plans. The air district's guidance is
       contained in its California Environmental Quality Act Air Quality Guidelines ("guidelines")
       which were initially adopted in 1999.

       Because the proposed project is relatively small, the analysis of air quality impacts
       focuses on whether the proposed project meets the air district screening criteria for
       projects having a less than significant impact. This section was prepared in accordance
       with the air district's California Environmental Quality Act Guidelines ("guidelines") and
       thresholds, as available. The thresholds of significance in the 1999, 2011, and 2012
       versions of the air district's guidelines and screening thresholds were consulted to
       determine if the project meets the screening criteria. As described on page 3-1 of the 2011
       guidelines, if a proposed project size is below that listed in Table 3-1 of those guidelines
       for the corresponding use, the proposed project's operational impacts for criteria
       pollutants would not be potentially significant and detailed air quality assessment is not
       needed.

       Table 3-1 in the 2011 guidelines is entitled "Operational-Related Criteria Air Pollutant
       and Precursor Screening Level Sizes". The table includes residential project sizes in
       terms of project type and dwelling unit number. If the project meets the screening criteria
       in Table 3-1, the project would not result in the generation of operational-related criteria
       air pollutants and/or precursors that exceed the thresholds of significance defined in
       Table 2-2 of those guidelines. Projects smaller than the listed size would have a less than
       significant impact on air quality. For single-family residential projects, the screening
       threshold project size is 325 dwelling units. With only 55 residential lots, the proposed
       project is substantially smaller than the project threshold and therefore, would have a less
       than significant impact on air quality.

       Table 3-1 also contains screening criteria for construction impacts of new development
       projects. For single-family residential uses, construction emissions are less than
       significant for projects that less than 325 dwelling units; project construction impacts
       would be less than significant. However, cumulative development projects in the region
       could have a cumulatively significant effect on air quality impacts associated with
       construction activity. The following mitigation measure would ensure that the project's
       contribution to cumulative air quality construction impacts would not be considerable
       and therefore, less than significant.




24                                                                   EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                            S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




      Mitigation Measure

      AQ-1. During construction, the following basic control measures shall be implemented at the
             construction site:

             1.       All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas,
                      and unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day.

             2.       All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site shall be
                      covered.

             3.       All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed using
                      wet power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power
                      sweeping is prohibited.

             4.       All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 mph.

             5.       All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as soon as
                      possible. Building pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading unless
                      seeding or soil binders are used.

             6.       Idling times shall be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use
                      or reducing the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the California
                      airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of
                      Regulations [CCR]). Clear signage shall be provided for construction workers at all
                      access points.

             7.       All construction equipment shall be maintained and properly tuned in accordance
                      with manufacturer's specifications. All equipment shall be checked by a certified
                      visible emissions evaluator.

             8.       Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the
                      lead agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take
                      corrective action within 48 hours. The Air District's phone number shall also be
                      visible to ensure compliance with applicable regulations.

e.    Odors. The proposed project would not be a source of odor.




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                             25
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




4.     B IOLOGICAL R ESOURCES

Would the project:

                                                       Potentially    Less-than-Significant   Less-Than-
                                                       Significant   Impact with Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                         Impact      Measures Incorporated      Impact      Impact

 a. Have a substantial adverse effect, either                                                                
    directly or through habitat modifications, on
    any species identified as a candidate,
    sensitive, or special status species in local or
    regional plans, policies, regulations, or by the
    California Department of Fish and Game or
    US Fish and Wildlife Service? (1, 12, 24, 25,
    26, 28)

 b. Have a substantial adverse effect on any                                                                 
    riparian habitat or other sensitive natural
    community identified in local or regional
    plans, policies, or regulations, or by the
    California Department of Fish and Game or
    US Fish and Wildlife Service? (1, 12)

 c. Have a substantial adverse effect on federally                                                           
    protected wetlands, as defined by section 404
    of the Clean Water Act (including, but not
    limited to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.),
    through direct removal, filling, hydrological
    interruption, or other means? (12)

 d. Interfere substantially with the movement of                                                             
    any native resident or migratory fish or
    wildlife species or with established native
    resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or
    impede the use of native wildlife nursery
    sites? (12)

 e. Conflict with any local policies or ordinances                                                           
    protecting biological resources, such as a tree
    preservation policy or ordinance? (12, 27)

 f. Conflict with the provisions of an adopted                                                               
    Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural
    Community Conservation Plan, or other
    approved local, regional, or state habitat
    conservation plan? (12, 28, 29)




26                                                                           EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                             S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



Comments:

This section is based on a biological reconnaissance field survey conducted by EMC Planning
Group biologist Andrea Edwards on July 9, 2013, to document existing habitats and evaluate
the potential for special-status species to occur on the project site. Prior to conducting the site
visit, Ms. Edwards reviewed site plans; aerial photographs; database accounts; and scientific
literature/project reports describing natural resources in the vicinity.

Biological resources were documented in field notes, including species observed, dominant plant
communities, and significant wildlife habitat characteristics. Qualitative estimations of plant
cover, structure, and spatial changes in species composition were used to determine plant
communities and wildlife habitats, and habitat quality and disturbance level was noted.

The project site is situated on the Gilroy U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) quadrangle map. It is
bordered to the east by Christopher High School and Cougar Court access road; to the north by
Day Road; to the west by fallow agricultural fields and rural residential development; and to the
south by a Santa Clara Valley Water District flood control channel (Lion's Creek) and
residential development.

The site has recently been utilized for agricultural forage crop production, but at the time of
survey consisted of fallow fields, except for approximately two acres in the northeast corner of
the site that contained a hill which, according to the Zander Associates 2013 report, was formed
as a soil stockpile. The entire site, including this partially fenced hill, contained non-native
ruderal (weedy) vegetation at the time of the EMC Planning Group survey. Non-native plants
dominating the site included wild oat (Avena sp.), shortpod mustard (Hirschfeldia incana), yellow
star-thistle (Centaurea solstitialis), and hayfield tarweed (Hemizonia congesta ssp. luzulifolia); other
common non-native species included ripgut grass (Bromus diandrus), English plantain (Plantago
lanceolata), Italian thistle (Carduus pycnocephalus var. pycnocephalus), chicory (Cichorium intybus),
and curly dock (Rumex crispus). Native vegetation is limited to occasional coyote brush (Baccharis
pilularis), common horseweed (Erigeron canadensis), and northern California black walnut (Juglans
hindsii) [with one large and one small tree growing together, located immediately adjacent to
Cougar Court on the northeastern edge of the site].

a.      Special-Status Species. A search of the California Department of Fish and Wildlife
        (CDFW) California Natural Diversity Database (CNDDB) was conducted for the Morgan
        Hill, Mount Sizer, Mississippi Creek, Mount Madonna, Gilroy, Gilroy Hot Springs,
        Watsonville East, Chittenden, and San Felipe USGS quadrangles in order to generate a
        list of potentially occurring special-status species in the project vicinity (CDFW 2013).
        Records of occurrence for special-status plants were reviewed for those USGS
        quadrangles in the California Native Plant Society (CNPS) Inventory of Rare and
        Endangered Plants (CNPS 2013). A U.S Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) Endangered


EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                            27
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



       Species Program threatened and endangered species list was also generated for Santa Clara
       County (USFWS 2013).

       The following information is contained in the City of Gilroy's General Plan, Chapter
       Eight: Community Resources and Potential Hazards:

       Policy 20.04: Rare and Endangered Species - Limit development in areas that support the
       California Tiger Salamander and other rare or endangered species. If development of these areas
       must occur, any loss of habitat should be fully compensated onsite. If off-site mitigation is necessary,
       it should occur within the Gilroy Planning Area whenever possible, and must be accompanied by
       plans and a monitoring program prepared by a qualified biologist.

       Special-status species in this report are those listed as Endangered, Threatened, or Rare,
       or as Candidates for listing by the USFWS and/or CDFW; or as special-status by the
       CNPS. Most special-status species known to occur in the region are not expected to
       occur on the project site due to lack of suitable habitat; only those species with potential
       to occur on or immediately adjacent to the site are discussed below.

       The potential for occurrence of state Species of Special Concern burrowing owl (Athene
       cunicularia) is discussed below in response (f), regarding conservation plans.

       Nesting birds. Construction activities, including possible tree removal, have potential to
       impact nesting birds (including raptors) protected under the federal Migratory Bird
       Treaty Act and California Fish and Game Code, should they be present during
       construction. The project site and immediately adjacent landscaped rural residential
       ornamental areas contain trees and/or other suitable habitats with potential to support
       nesting birds. If protected species are nesting in or adjacent to the project site during the
       nesting season (February through August), then noise-generating construction activities
       could result in the loss of fertile eggs or nestlings, or otherwise lead to the abandonment
       of nests. Implementation of the following mitigation measure would reduce potentially
       significant impacts to nesting birds to a less than significant level.

       Mitigation Measure

       BIO-1. To avoid potential impacts to nesting birds, noise-generating construction activities and
                vegetation removal should be scheduled to take place outside of the nesting bird season
                (February 1 to August 31). If construction begins during the nesting season, then a
                qualified biologist will conduct a pre-construction survey for nesting birds to ensure that no
                nests would be disturbed during project construction. This survey will be conducted no
                more than seven days prior to the initiation of disturbance activities during the early part of
                the nesting season (February through April) and no more than 30 days prior to the
                initiation of disturbance activities during the late part of the nesting season (May through


28                                                                           EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                             S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



              August). If no active nests are present within 250 feet of construction, then activities can
              proceed as scheduled. However, if an active nest is detected during the survey within 250
              feet of construction, then the establishment of a protective construction-free buffer zone from
              each active nest (typically 250 feet for raptors and 50-100 feet for other species) will be
              clearly delineated or fenced until the juvenile bird(s) have fledged (left the nest), unless the
              biologist determines that construction noise would not impact the active nest.

              If pre-construction nesting bird surveys are necessary, based upon the requirements of this
              mitigation measure, then a pre-construction survey report shall be prepared prior to
              commencement of construction activities, subject to review and approval by the City
              Planning Division.

b.    Sensitive Natural Communities. No sensitive natural communities occur on or adjacent
      to the site; the flood control channel south of the site is regularly maintained and does
      not support riparian habitat. Therefore no impacts to sensitive natural communities
      associated with the proposed project are anticipated, and no mitigation is necessary.

c.    Wetlands. The Santa Clara Valley Water District Lion's Creek flood control channel is
      located immediately south of the project site. No areas of the project site contain any
      wetlands or waterways, as confirmed by the biological field survey. Therefore, no
      federally protected wetlands would be affected by the proposed project, and no impacts
      to wetland resources within the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
      (USACE), the CDFW, or the Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) are
      anticipated.

d.    Wildlife Movement. Wildlife movement corridors provide connectivity between habitat
      areas, enhancing species richness and diversity, and usually also provide cover, water,
      food, and breeding sites. The on-site fallow agricultural fields contain low quality ruderal
      (weedy) habitat that typically would only support limited movement opportunities for
      common, urban-adapted wildlife species to access neighboring agricultural fields.
      Therefore, the proposed project would have a less than significant impact on wildlife
      movement and would not impede the use of native wildlife nursery sites.

e.    Local Biological Resource Policies/Ordinances. The City of Gilroy's Consolidated
      Landscaping Policy, Section 6.0: Significant Trees, states the following:

      "6.1 During project preliminary review, staff shall determine if existing trees shall be
      designated significant. This determination shall be based upon the following guidelines:

      A.   Existing native trees (naturally occurring in species in Gilroy) six inches (6") or
           more in diameter, at a point four and one half feet (4 ½') above the ground, or




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                                  29
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



       B.       Important to the historical or visual aspect of Gilroy (the hillside tree stands).

       6.2 If a significant tree is present, the applicant may be required to hire a certified
       consulting arborist for the entire span of the project. All arborist recommendations shall
       be listed on the final landscape plans.

       6.3 The consulting arborist shall sign the Final Landscape Plans certifying that the plan
       is consistent with the recommendations made in the arborist's report.

       6.4 All significant trees shall be maintained by the property owner until deemed
       insignificant by a public hearing or deemed a threat to the public health, safety, and
       welfare, by the Planning Division Manager."

       The project site contains two northern California black walnuts growing together,
       located immediately adjacent to Cougar Court on the northeastern edge of the site. The
       larger, multi-trunked walnut tree has a main trunk of approximately nine inches in
       diameter at breast height (DBH), which meets the City's Consolidated Landscape Policy
       significance criteria due to its size.

       Significant trees. For removal of any significant tree, an approved permit and mitigation
       plan are required as a condition of project approval, consistent with the City's
       Consolidated Landscaping Policy. Implementation of the mitigation measure indicated
       below would reduce the impact of removing the significant tree to a less than significant
       level.

       Mitigation Measure

       BIO-2. Because the site contains a native tree deemed significant by the City of Gilroy's
                  Consolidated Landscaping Policy, the project applicant shall fully comply with the
                  measures required by Section 6 of the Consolidated Landscaping Policy. Prior to removal of
                  any significant tree, the project applicant shall obtain a tree removal permit, subject to
                  review and approval by the City Planning Division, and will comply with any tree
                  protection or replacement measures stipulated by the City.

f.     Conservation Plans. The project site is located within the boundaries of the Santa Clara
       Valley Habitat Plan ("Habitat Plan"), a combined Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) and
       Natural Community Conservation Plan (NCCP) incorporating the southern portion of
       Santa Clara County. This includes the cities of San Jose, Morgan Hill, and Gilroy. Other
       partners/permittees of the Habitat Plan include the County of Santa Clara, the Santa
       Clara Valley Water District, and the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority. The
       Habitat Plan was developed in association with the USFWS and CDFW.




30                                                                             EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                         S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



      The Habitat Plan is intended to provide an effective framework to protect, enhance, and
      restore natural resources in specific areas of Santa Clara County, while improving and
      streamlining the environmental permitting process for impacts on threatened and
      endangered species. Partner agencies are expected to begin implementation of the
      Habitat Plan in October 2013.

      This proposed Urban Development project is a "Covered Activity" pursuant to the
      Habitat Plan (page 2-39). The project site is zoned for "Single Family Residential".
      According to Habitat Plan Table 2-1, this "Low Density Residential" land use is
      categorized as "Urban Development." Specifically, the proposed project will result in an
      urban density of approximately 5.4 dwelling units per acre, positioned inside the
      planning limits of urban growth pursuant to Habitat Plan Figure 2-2.

      As a covered activity, a Habitat Plan permit application and the payment of applicable
      fees will be required, but the proposed project does not affect nor conflict with the future
      Santa Clara Valley Habitat Plan reserve system nor preclude the ability to implement
      aspects of the Santa Clara Valley Habitat Plan conservation strategies; therefore, as long
      as a Habitat Plan permit is obtained, the proposed project would not conflict with the
      Habitat Plan.

      According to the Habitat Plan land cover type data, the site is mapped entirely as
      "Urban-Suburban." The site contains mainly fallow agricultural land and supports only
      ruderal (weedy) vegetation. At the time of survey, the site did not support natural plant
      communities and provided only marginally functional wildlife habitat.

      According to the biological reconnaissance survey conducted by EMC Planning Group
      in July 2013, the site was composed of low-quality ruderal habitat on fallow agricultural
      lands. The burrowing owl had low potential to occur on the site in July 2013 given the
      marginally suitable habitat that had developed on the site for this species, consisting of a
      minor concentration of California ground squirrel (Spermophilus beecheyi) burrows in low
      grassy vegetation in the fallow agricultural fields. If the site is not regularly
      disked/mechanically disturbed, and if suitable burrowing owl habitat conditions are
      present on the site at the time of proposed construction, then specific conditions for
      burrowing owl protection (presented in Table ES-2 of the Habitat Plan) would be
      required.

      Chapter 6 of the Habitat Plan requires conditions on covered activities to minimize
      biological resource impacts. With implementation of the following mitigation measure,
      the proposed project would not conflict with the Habitat Plan.




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                      31
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



       Mitigation Measure

       BIO-3. The applicant shall obtain a Habitat Plan permit from the City of Gilroy, prior to issuance
              of a grading permit. The permit shall include, but not be limited to, the following
               conditions:

               Condition 3: Maintain Hydrologic Conditions and Protect Water Quality. The proposed
               project shall provide Low Impact Development features and employ Best Management
               Practices to comply with the Regional Water Quality Control Board storm water
               management regulations, including a bio retention open space area and other landscape
               filtration/infiltration features.

               Condition 15: Western Burrowing Owl. Development and operations and maintenance
               guidelines will ensure that impacts to burrowing owl from covered activities are avoided or
               minimized. Species specific surveys shall be conducted during the project planning phase,
               and potential impacts to occupied breeding habitat shall be mapped. Preconstruction
               surveys shall establish species presence/absence. Project monitoring shall be coordinated
               with other regional efforts. Avoidance and minimization measures, including the
               establishment of a 250-foot buffer zone, shall avoid all nest sites that could be disturbed by
               project construction throughout the breeding season (generally February through August).
               During the non-breeding season, active burrows shall be avoided by the establishment of a
               160-foot border, and exclusion doors shall be put in place for 48 hours prior to excavation.
               All project monitoring shall be conducted by a qualified biologist.




32                                                                          EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                           S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




5.     C ULTURAL R ESOURCES

Would the project:

                                                       Potentially    Less-than-Significant   Less-Than-
                                                                                                              No
                                                       Significant   Impact with Mitigation   Significant
                                                                                                            Impact
                                                         Impact      Measures Incorporated      Impact

 a. Cause a substantial adverse change in the                                                                
    significance of a historical resource as
    defined in section 15064.5? (13,18)

 b. Cause a substantial adverse change in the                                                                
    significance of an archaeological resource
    pursuant to section 15064.5? (1,2,31,32)

 c. Directly or indirectly destroy a unique                                                                  
    paleontological resource or site or unique
    geologic feature? (31, 32)

 d. Disturb any human remains, including those                                                               
    interred outside of formal cemeteries?
    (1,2.31, 32)

Comments:

The following assessment of potential project impacts on these resources is based on information
obtained from the Gilroy General Plan, the cultural resources evaluation in the Silveira Annexation
and Zone Change Initial Study, and in the certified Gilroy Second High School EIR. The cultural
resources evaluation in the Silveira Annexation and Zone Change Initial Study is based on an
archaeological records search prepared by Archaeological Consulting in 2002, and an
archaeological reconnaissance and evaluation prepared by Holman Associates in 1986.

a.     Historic Resource. Historical resources include, but are not limited to, a) those
       historically and architecturally significant structures identified on the City's Historical &
       Cultural Resources Map (1978-79); and b) potentially any structure 50 years or older.
       There are no structures on the proposed project site; therefore, the proposed project will
       not cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of a historical resource as
       defined in CEQA Guidelines section 15064.5.

b/d.   Archeological Resource/Human Remains. As identified in prior environmental
       documentation, the project site is not known to contain archaeological resources.
       However, there remains potential that discovery of unknown and unanticipated buried
       cultural resources could occur during grading and construction activities. Damage to
       significant cultural resources, or disturbance of human remains would be considered a
       significant adverse environmental impact. Implementation of the following standard City
       mitigation measures would reduce this impact to a less than significant level.


EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                                            33
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



       Mitigation Measures

       CR-1.    Due to the possibility that significant buried cultural resources might be found during
               construction, the following language shall be included on any permits issued for the project
               site, subject to the review and approval of the Gilroy Planning Division (pursuant to Gilroy
               General Plan Policy 5.07):

               If archaeological resources are discovered during construction, work shall be halted within
               50 meters (165 feet) of the find until a qualified professional archaeologist can evaluate it. If
               the find is determined to be significant, appropriate mitigation measures shall be
               formulated and implemented.

       CR-2.    In the event of an accidental discovery or recognition of any human remains in any
               location other than a dedicated cemetery, the City shall ensure that the language is
               included in all permits in accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15064.5(e), subject to
               the review and approval of the City of Gilroy Planning Division:

               If human remains are found during construction there shall be no further excavation or
               disturbance of the site or any nearby area reasonably suspected to overlie adjacent human
               remains until the coroner of Santa Clara County is contacted to determine that no
               investigation of the cause of death is required. If the coroner determines the remains to be
               Native American the coroner shall contact the Native American Heritage Commission
               within 24 hours. The Native American Heritage Commission shall identify the person or
               persons it believes to be the most likely descendent MLD) from the deceased Native
               American. The MLD may then make recommendations to the landowner or the person
               responsible for the excavation work, for means of treating or disposing of, with appropriate
               dignity, the human remains and associated grave goods as provided in Public Resources
               Code Section 5097.98. The landowner or his authorized representative shall rebury the
               Native American human remains and associated grave goods with appropriate dignity on
               the property in a location not subject to further disturbance if: a) the Native American
               Heritage Commission is unable to identify a MLD or the MLD failed to make a
               recommendation within 24 hours after being notified by the commission; b) the descendent
               identified fails to make a recommendation; or c) the landowner or his authorized
               representative rejects the recommendation of the descendent, and the mediation by the
               Native American Heritage Commission fails to provide measures acceptable to the
               landowner.

       Implementation of mitigation measure CR-1 and CR-2 would require construction to be
       halted and appropriate evaluation and actions be taken should archaeological resources
       or human remains be discovered during construction. Implementation of the mitigation
       measures would reduce potentially significant impacts associated with significant
       archaeological resources or human remains to a less than significant level.


34                                                                           EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                         S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



c.    Paleontological Resource. As identified in prior environmental documentation, the
      project site is not known to contain any unique paleontological resources or unique
      geologic features; therefore, the proposed project would not directly or indirectly destroy
      a unique paleontological resource or unique geologic feature on the site.




EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                     35
S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY




6.     G EOLOGY          AND     S OILS

Would the project:

                                                       Potentially    Less-than-Significant   Less-Than-
                                                       Significant   Impact with Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                         Impact      Measures Incorporated      Impact      Impact

 a. Expose people or structures to potential
    substantial adverse effects, including the risk
    of loss, injury, or death involving:

 (1) Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as                                                                 
     delineated on the most recent Alquist-Priolo
     Earthquake Fault Zoning Map issued by the
     State Geologist for the area or based on other
     substantial evidence of a known fault? Refer
     to Division of Mines and Geology Special
     Publication 42. (34)

 (2) Strong seismic ground shaking? (1,2,34)                                                                 

 (3) Seismic-related ground failure, including                                                               
     liquefaction? (1,2,34)

 (4) Landslides? (34)                                                                                        

 b. Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss                                                           
    of topsoil? (3, 34)

 c. Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is                                                            
    unstable, or that would become unstable as a
    result of the project, and potentially result in
    on- or off-site landslide, lateral spreading,
    subsidence, liquefaction, or collapse? (1,2,34)

 d. Be located on expansive soil, as defined in                                                              
    Table 18-1-B of the California Building Code
    (2001), creating substantial risks to life or
    property? (1,2,34)

Comments:

This section is based in part on a Geotechnical Engineering Report prepared for the project
(Earth Systems Pacific, 2013) which is included as Appendix B of this initial study.

a.     Potential impacts from exposure to geologic risk are as follows:

       (1)   Earthquake. The site is located within a seismically active area but is outside the
             Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zones as mapped by the State Geologist, and is



36                                                                           EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .
                                           S ILVEIRA R ESIDENTIAL S UBDIVISIO N I NITIAL S TUDY



            outside mapped Santa Clara County fault rupture hazard zones. Therefore, the
            proposed project would not expose people or structures to potential substantial
            adverse effects, including the risk of loss, injury, or death involving rupture of a
            known earthquake fault, as delineated on the most recent Alquist-Priolo
            Earthquake Fault Zoning Map issued by the State Geologist for the area, or based
            on other substantial evidence of a known fault.

       (2) Seismic Ground Shaking. The geotechnical report (Earth Systems Pacific 2013b)
            identified that the site is approximately 3.7 miles northeast of the Sargent Fault and
            7.5 miles northeast of the San Andreas Fault. An earthquake of moderate to high
            magnitude along these faults could cause considerable seismic ground shaking at
            the site and potential damage to project improvements and risk to public safety if
            improvements are not constructed consistent with seismic safety standards. The
            geotechnical report includes recommendations to minimize the risks from seismic
            shaking to less than significant, therefore the following mitigation measure shall be
            required.

      Mitigation Measure

      GEO-1. The applicant shall incorporate the design recommendations from the Earth Systems
              Pacific geotechnical report (2013) into the design of the project. The recommendations are
              listed on pages 6 through 14 of the geotechnical engineering report and are included in
              Appendix B of this initial study.

      (3)   Liquefaction. As identified in the geotechnical report (Earth Systems Pacific
            2013b), according to the Santa Clara County Geologic Hazards maps, the proposed
            project site is not located in an area having liquefaction potential, and potential
            liquefiable soils were not encountered in site borings. Further, Figure 4.9-1a,
            Liquefaction Hazard Map for Gilroy, contained in the general plan EIR, shows
            that the project site is located in an area with very low hazards from liquefaction.
            Therefore, the risk from ground failure due to liquefaction is less than significant.

      (4)   Landslide. The project site does not contain steep slopes that are subject to failure.
            Therefore, there is no risk of exposure of people or structures to potential
            substantial adverse effects involving landslides.

b.    Soil erosion/loss of topsoil. As described in Chapter 27C and 27D of the Gilroy
      municipal code, all projects disturbing an area of one or more acres, are conditioned to
      comply with erosion control measures described in the City's NPDES General Permit
      No. CAS000002 for grading, construction, and post-construction activities. Therefore,
      any potential impacts associated with soil erosion would be mitigated to a less than



EMC PL ANNING GROUP INC .                                                                            37
                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                                           Campbell, CA
                                                                           (408) 377-2988
                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                   File Name      : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code      : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                                   Page No        :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                                  DAY RD                       COUGAR CT                                                DAY RD
                        Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                             Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds     App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0      0    0     0           0        0     10    40    0       50     91     0    0     0                      91          2      13     0    0         15          156
  07:15 AM       0      0    0     0           0        0       7   28    0       35     22     0    0     0                      22          1      15     0    0         16           73
  07:30 AM       0      0    0     0           0        0       7   86    0       93 127        0    4     0                     131          4      18     0    0         22          246
  07:45 AM       0      0    0     0           0        0     15    85    0    100 205          0    5     0                     210         13      18     0    0         31          341
      Total      0      0    0     0           0        0     39 239      0    278 445          0    9     0                     454         20      64     0    0         84          816

  08:00 AM       0     0     0      0          0        0     15    10     0         25      77     0       1           0         78          1     19     0      0        20          123
  08:15 AM       0     0     0      0          0        0     12     2     0         14      10     0       0           0         10          0      6     0      0         6           30
  08:30 AM       0     0     0      0          0        0     10     1     0         11      12     0       0           0         12          0      9     0      0         9           32
  08:45 AM       0     0     0      0          0        0      9     0     0          9       6     0       0           0          6          0     14     0      0        14           29
      Total      0     0     0      0          0        0     46    13     0         59     105     0       1           0        106          1     48     0      0        49          214

 Grand Total     0     0     0      0          0        0   85 252         0       337  550         0       10          0        560   21 112              0      0      133          1030
  Apprch %       0     0     0      0                   0 25.2 74.8        0           98.2         0      1.8          0            15.8 84.2             0      0
   Total %       0     0     0      0          0        0  8.3 24.5        0      32.7 53.4         0        1          0       54.4    2 10.9             0      0     12.9




                                                            DAY RD                                  COUGAR CT                                         DAY RD
                           Southbound                      Westbound                                 Northbound                                      Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left         App. Total   Right   Thru    Left            App. Total     Right    Thru   Left   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM          0       0       0          0      0   10     40                50       91       0           0              91           2      13      0          15             156
    07:15 AM          0       0       0          0      0    7     28                35       22       0           0              22           1      15      0          16              73
    07:30 AM          0       0       0          0      0    7     86                93      127       0           4             131           4      18      0          22             246
    07:45 AM          0       0       0          0      0   15     85               100      205       0           5             210          13      18      0          31             341
 Total Volume         0       0       0          0      0   39    239               278       445      0            9            454          20      64      0          84             816
 % App. Total         0       0       0                 0   14     86                          98      0            2                       23.8    76.2      0
          PHF     .000     .000    .000      .000    .000 .650   .695              .695      .543   .000         .450           .540        .385    .889   .000       .677             .598
                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                                           Campbell, CA
                                                                           (408) 377-2988
                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                   File Name      : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code      : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                                   Page No        :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                                  DAY RD                       COUGAR CT                                                DAY RD
                        Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                                             Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds     App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0      0    0     0           0        0     18    17    0       35     20     0    1     0                       21         0      12     0    0         12           68
  04:15 PM       0      0    0     0           0        0       9   16    0       25     14     0    0     0                       14         1      21     0    0         22           61
  04:30 PM       0      0    0     0           0        0     23    10    0       33     25     0    0     0                       25         0      16     0    0         16           74
  04:45 PM       0      0    0     0           0        0     11    15    0       26     31     0    1     0                       32         0      19     0    1         20           78
      Total      0      0    0     0           0        0     61    58    0    119       90     0    2     0                       92         1      68     0    1         70          281

  05:00 PM       0     0     0      0          0        0     18    13     0        31       30     0       1           0         31          4      9     0      0        13           75
  05:15 PM       0     0     0      0          0        0     21    20     0        41       25     0       2           0         27          2     28     0      0        30           98
  05:30 PM       0     0     0      0          0        0     21    21     0        42       39     0       0           0         39          0     22     0      1        23          104
  05:45 PM       0     0     0      0          0        0     14     6     0        20       18     0       2           0         20          1      9     0      0        10           50
      Total      0     0     0      0          0        0     74    60     0       134      112     0       5           0        117          7     68     0      1        76          327

 Grand Total     0     0     0      0          0        0 135 118          0       253  202         0        7          0        209          8 136        0     2       146           608
  Apprch %       0     0     0      0                   0 53.4 46.6        0           96.7         0      3.3          0                   5.5 93.2       0   1.4
   Total %       0     0     0      0          0        0 22.2 19.4        0      41.6 33.2         0      1.2          0       34.4        1.3 22.4       0   0.3         24




                                                            DAY RD                                  COUGAR CT                                         DAY RD
                           Southbound                      Westbound                                 Northbound                                      Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left         App. Total   Right   Thru    Left            App. Total     Right    Thru   Left   App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
    04:45 PM          0       0       0          0      0   11     15                26       31       0           1               32          0      19      0          19               77
    05:00 PM          0       0       0          0      0   18     13                31       30       0           1               31          4       9      0          13               75
    05:15 PM          0       0       0          0      0   21     20                41       25       0           2               27          2      28      0          30               98
    05:30 PM          0       0       0          0      0   21     21                 42      39       0            0              39          0      22      0          22             103
 Total Volume         0       0       0          0      0   71     69               140       125      0            4            129           6      78      0          84             353
 % App. Total         0       0       0                 0 50.7   49.3                        96.9      0          3.1                        7.1    92.9      0
          PHF     .000     .000    .000      .000    .000 .845   .821              .833      .801   .000         .500           .827        .375    .696   .000       .700             .857
                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                                     Campbell, CA
                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                     tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                     File Name         : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                     Site Code         : 00000002
                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                     Page No           :1
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                                               SANTA TERESA BLVD                      DAY RD
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Eastbound
 Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                        App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       11   48     0     0      59      0     0    0    0        0      0 246     35     0   281       95     0    20    0                          115           455
  07:15 AM       16   45     0     0      61      0     0    0    0        0      0 228     24     0   252       26     0     5    0                           31           344
  07:30 AM       29   83     0     0   112        0     0    0    0        0      0 179     96     0   275       98     0    33    0                          131           518
  07:45 AM       31 119      0     0   150        0     0    0    0        0      0 122     71     0   193 173          0    59    0                          232           575
      Total      87 295      0     0   382        0     0    0    0        0      0 775 226        0 1001 392           0 117      0                          509          1892

  08:00 AM       7    83      0     1     91      0     0      0     0          0      0     169      19          0    188    95      0      20        0      115           394
  08:15 AM       4    57      0     0     61      0     0      0     0          0      0     184      13          0    197    15      0       2        0       17           275
  08:30 AM       6    59      0     0     65      0     0      0     0          0      0     157       6          0    163    18      0       7        2       27           255
  08:45 AM       2    53      0     0     55      0     0      0     0          0      0     113       7          0    120    12      0       7        0       19           194
      Total     19   252      0     1    272      0     0      0     0          0      0     623      45          0    668   140      0      36        2      178          1118

 Grand Total    106 547       0     1    654      0     0      0     0          0      0 1398 271                 0   1669  532       0 153          2        687          3010
  Apprch %     16.2 83.6      0   0.2             0     0      0     0                 0 83.8 16.2                0        77.4       0 22.3       0.3
   Total %      3.5 18.2      0     0    21.7     0     0      0     0          0      0 46.4    9                0   55.4 17.7       0  5.1       0.1       22.8




                     SANTA TERESA BLVD                                                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                              DAY RD
                           Southbound                      Westbound                         Northbound                                Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left   App. Total   Right Thru    Left App. Total          Right    Thru   Left      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM        11       48       0        59       0    0      0            0       0     246          35         281     95        0        20        115              455
    07:15 AM        16       45       0        61       0    0      0            0       0      228         24         252     26        0         5         31              344
    07:30 AM        29       83       0       112       0    0      0            0       0      179         96         275     98        0        33        131              518
    07:45 AM        31      119       0       150       0    0      0            0       0      122          71        193    173        0        59        232              575
 Total Volume       87      295       0       382       0    0      0            0       0      775         226       1001    392        0     117          509            1892
 % App. Total     22.8     77.2       0                 0    0      0                    0     77.4        22.6                77        0      23
          PHF     .702     .620    .000      .637    .000 .000   .000        .000     .000     .788        .589       .891   .566     .000    .496         .548             .823
                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                                     Campbell, CA
                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                     tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                    File Name         : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                    Site Code         : 00000002
                                                                                                                                    Start Date        : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                    Page No           :1
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                                               SANTA TERESA BLVD                      DAY RD
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Eastbound
 Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                       App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       10 148      0     0   158        0     0    0    0        0      0   82    28     0   110       24     0    11    0                          35           303
  04:15 PM       11 153      0     0   164        0     0    0    0        0      0   93    14     0   107       26     0    11    0                          37           308
  04:30 PM       11 195      0     0   206        0     0    0    0        0      0   88    20     0   108       30     0    11    0                          41           355
  04:45 PM       11 160      0     0   171        0     0    0    0        0      0   93    15     0   108       39     0     9    0                          48           327
      Total      43 656      0     0   699        0     0    0    0        0      0 356     77     0   433 119          0    42    0                         161          1293

  05:00 PM       9   187      0     0    196      0     0      0     0          0      0      92     22          0   114     30      0      14        0       44           354
  05:15 PM      15   188      0     0    203      0     0      0     0          0      0      97     31          0   128     41      0      10        0       51           382
  05:30 PM       8   209      0     0    217      0     0      0     0          0      0     100     31          0   131     49      0      11        0       60           408
  05:45 PM       5   223      0     0    228      0     0      0     0          0      0      71     17          0    88     19      0       8        0       27           343
      Total     37   807      0     0    844      0     0      0     0          0      0     360    101          0   461    139      0      43        0      182          1487

 Grand Total    80 1463       0     0   1543      0     0      0     0          0      0 716 178                 0   894   258       0   85           0      343          2780
  Apprch %      5.2 94.8      0     0             0     0      0     0                 0 80.1 19.9               0        75.2       0 24.8           0
   Total %      2.9 52.6      0     0    55.5     0     0      0     0          0      0 25.8  6.4               0   32.2  9.3       0  3.1           0     12.3




                     SANTA TERESA BLVD                                                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                             DAY RD
                           Southbound                      Westbound                         Northbound                               Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left   App. Total   Right Thru    Left App. Total         Right    Thru   Left      App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          9     187       0       196       0    0      0            0       0         92      22        114      30        0        14          44             354
    05:15 PM        15      188       0       203       0    0      0            0       0         97      31        128      41        0      10            51             382
    05:30 PM          8     209       0       217       0    0      0            0       0     100          31       131      49        0      11            60             408
    05:45 PM          5     223       0       228       0    0      0            0       0       71         17        88      19        0       8           27             343
 Total Volume       37      807       0       844       0    0      0            0       0      360        101       461     139        0      43          182            1487
 % App. Total      4.4     95.6       0                 0    0      0                    0     78.1       21.9              76.4        0    23.6
          PHF     .617     .905    .000      .925    .000 .000   .000        .000     .000     .900       .815       .880   .709     .000    .768         .758             .911
                                                             Traffic Data Service
                                                                             Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                           File Name      : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code      : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                           Start Date     : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                                           Page No        :1
                                                                          Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                        CHRISTOPHER HIGH
                 SANTA TERESA BLVD                              DAY RD                               SANTA TERESA BLVD
                                                                                                                                                        SCHOOL ENTRANCE
                     Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound
                                                                                                                                                             Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru     Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right    Thru   Left Peds            App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total        Int. Total
  07:00 AM      2   116     33     0      151        12       0      14     0           26        60       269    41     0               370          0     0     0    0       0             547
  07:15 AM      7    47     13     0       67        17       0      19     0           36        52       230    40     0               322          0     0     0    1       1             426
  07:30 AM     23   115     43     0      181        96       0      14     0          110        30       193   148     8               379          0     0     0    7       7             677
  07:45 AM     41   220     53     0      314        53       0      44     0           97        43       141   142     6               332          0     0     0    7       7             750
      Total    73   498    142     0      713       178       0      91     0          269       185       833   371    14              1403          0     0     0   15      15            2400

  08:00 AM      3   163     44     0      210          9      0      37        0        46        38       172      16          0        226          0     0      0      0          0       482
  08:15 AM      5    65      6     0       76          6      1      25        0        32        44       196       9          0        249          0     0      0      1          1       358
  08:30 AM      0    60     13     0       73          3      0       9        0        12        39       154       2          0        195          0     1      0      1          2       282
  08:45 AM      1    58      7     0       66          3      1      13        0        17        46       120       4          0        170          0     0      0      0          0       253
      Total     9   346     70     0      425         21      2      84        0       107       167       642      31          0        840          0     1      0      2          3      1375

 Grand Total   82 844 212          0    1138   199             2 175           0       376   352 1475 402                   14          2243          0      1     0   17       18          3775
  Apprch %     7.2 74.2 18.6       0          52.9           0.5 46.5          0            15.7 65.8 17.9                 0.6                        0    5.6     0 94.4
   Total %     2.2 22.4  5.6       0     30.1  5.3           0.1  4.6          0         10  9.3 39.1 10.6                 0.4          59.4          0      0     0  0.5       0.5




                                                                                                                                                      CHRISTOPHER HIGH
                    SANTA TERESA BLVD                               DAY RD                               SANTA TERESA BLVD
                                                                                                                                                      SCHOOL ENTRANCE
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound
                                                                                                                                                          Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru            Left     App. Total     Right     Thru         Left       App. Total     Right Thru   Left App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM          2     116      33       151      12    0             14             26         60      269          41             370           0       0      0         0             547
    07:15 AM          7      47      13        67      17    0             19             36         52       230         40             322           0       0      0         0             425
    07:30 AM        23      115      43       181      96    0             14            110         30       193        148             371           0       0      0         0             662
    07:45 AM        41      220      53       314      53    0             44            97          43       141         142           326            0       0      0         0             737
 Total Volume       73      498     142       713     178    0              91          269         185       833         371          1389            0       0      0         0           2371
 % App. Total     10.2     69.8    19.9              66.2    0            33.8                     13.3        60        26.7                          0       0      0
          PHF     .445     .566    .670      .568    .464 .000            .517         .611        .771      .774        .627           .936        .000    .000   .000       .000           .804
                                                             Traffic Data Service
                                                                             Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                            File Name      : 3PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                            Site Code      : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                            Start Date     : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                                            Page No        :1
                                                                          Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                         CHRISTOPHER HIGH
                 SANTA TERESA BLVD                              DAY RD                               SANTA TERESA BLVD
                                                                                                                                                         SCHOOL ENTRANCE
                     Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound
                                                                                                                                                              Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru     Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Peds       App. Total   Right    Thru   Left Peds             App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total        Int. Total
  04:00 PM      3   183      4     0      190         14      1      39     0           54         30      100     3     0                133          0     0     0    0       0             377
  04:15 PM      2   171     10     0      183         12      0      42     0           54         21       98     8     0                127          0     0     0    0       0             364
  04:30 PM      0   202      8     0      210          8      0      44     0           52         18      103     5     0                126          0     0     0    1       1             389
  04:45 PM      1   196      8     0      205          4      1      37     1           43         30      110     5     0                145          0     0     0    2       2             395
      Total     6   752     30     0      788         38      2     162     1          203         99      411    21     0                531          0     0     0    3       3            1525

  05:00 PM      2   209     10     0      221         11      0      36        0        47         24      106       8           0        138          0     0      0      0          0       406
  05:15 PM      6   224      8     0      238         10      0      43        0        53         27      113       7           0        147          0     0      0      0          0       438
  05:30 PM      1   222     12     0      235          9      0      61        0        70         25      123       9           0        157          0     0      0      0          0       462
  05:45 PM      2   258      6     0      266          9      0      35        0        44         18       79       8           0        105          0     0      0      1          1       416
      Total    11   913     36     0      960         39      0     175        0       214         94      421      32           0        547          0     0      0      1          1      1722

 Grand Total   17 1665      66     0    1748    77             2 337          1        417  193 832                  53          0       1078          0     0      0     4           4      3247
  Apprch %       1 95.3    3.8     0          18.5           0.5 80.8       0.2            17.9 77.2                4.9          0                     0     0      0   100
   Total %     0.5 51.3      2     0     53.8  2.4           0.1 10.4         0       12.8  5.9 25.6                1.6          0       33.2          0     0      0   0.1      0.1




                                                                                                                                                       CHRISTOPHER HIGH
                    SANTA TERESA BLVD                               DAY RD                               SANTA TERESA BLVD
                                                                                                                                                       SCHOOL ENTRANCE
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound
                                                                                                                                                           Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru            Left     App. Total     Right     Thru          Left       App. Total     Right Thru   Left App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          2     209       10      221      11    0             36             47         24      106            8             138           0       0      0         0             406
    05:15 PM          6     224        8      238      10    0             43             53         27      113            7             147           0       0      0         0             438
    05:30 PM          1     222       12      235       9    0             61              70        25      123            9             157           0       0      0         0             462
    05:45 PM          2     258        6      266       9    0              35           44          18        79            8            105           0       0      0         0            415
 Total Volume       11      913       36      960      39    0             175          214          94       421           32            547           0       0      0         0           1721
 % App. Total      1.1     95.1      3.8             18.2    0            81.8                     17.2        77          5.9                          0       0      0
          PHF     .458     .885    .750      .902    .886 .000            .717         .764        .870      .856         .889           .871        .000    .000   .000       .000           .931
                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                                     Campbell, CA
                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                     tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                    File Name           : 4AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                    Site Code           : 00000004
                                                                                                                                    Start Date          : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                    Page No             :1
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                                               SANTA TERESA BLVD                   SUNRISE DR
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Eastbound
 Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                         App. Total    Int. Total
  07:00 AM       25   98     0     0   123        0     0    0    0        0      0 274      8     1   283       15     0    74    1                            90           496
  07:15 AM       13   62     0     0      75      0     0    0    0        0      0 255     20     9   284       20     0    73    9                           102           461
  07:30 AM       10 110      0     0   120        0     0    0    0        0      0 255     18    25   298       51     0 105     16                           172           590
  07:45 AM       30 232      0     0   262        0     0    0    0        0      0 246     13     8   267       85     0    69   30                           184           713
      Total      78 502      0     0   580        0     0    0    0        0      0 1030    59    43 1132 171           0 321     56                           548          2260

  08:00 AM      17   190      0     0    207      0     0      0     0          0      0     176     14          1    191    28      0       48         2       78           476
  08:15 AM      18    70      0     0     88      0     0      0     0          0      0     227     18          1    246    23      0       29         1       53           387
  08:30 AM      11    59      0     0     70      0     0      0     0          0      0     155     17          0    172    12      0       35         0       47           289
  08:45 AM      11    61      0     0     72      0     0      0     0          0      0     140      4          0    144    18      0       47         0       65           281
      Total     57   380      0     0    437      0     0      0     0          0      0     698     53          2    753    81      0      159         3      243          1433

 Grand Total    135 882       0     0   1017      0     0      0     0          0      0 1728      112       45      1885  252       0 480           59        791          3693
  Apprch %     13.3 86.7      0     0             0     0      0     0                 0 91.7      5.9      2.4           31.9       0 60.7         7.5
   Total %      3.7 23.9      0     0    27.5     0     0      0     0          0      0 46.8        3      1.2        51  6.8       0   13         1.6       21.4




                     SANTA TERESA BLVD                                                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                          SUNRISE DR
                           Southbound                      Westbound                         Northbound                              Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left   App. Total   Right Thru    Left App. Total         Right   Thru   Left         App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM        25       98       0       123       0    0      0            0       0     274          8         282     15        0         74           89             494
    07:15 AM        13       62       0        75       0    0      0            0       0     255         20         275     20        0         73           93             443
    07:30 AM        10      110       0       120       0    0      0            0       0     255          18        273     51        0         105        156              549
    07:45 AM        30      232       0       262       0    0      0            0       0     246          13        259     85        0       69           154              675
 Total Volume       78      502       0       580       0    0      0            0       0    1030          59       1089    171        0      321           492            2161
 % App. Total     13.4     86.6       0                 0    0      0                    0    94.6         5.4              34.8        0     65.2
          PHF     .650     .541    .000      .553    .000 .000   .000        .000     .000    .940        .738       .965   .503     .000     .764          .788             .800
                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                                     Campbell, CA
                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                     tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                     File Name         : 4PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                     Site Code         : 00000004
                                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                     Page No           :1
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                                               SANTA TERESA BLVD                   SUNRISE DR
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Eastbound
 Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                        App. Total    Int. Total
  04:00 PM       31 191      0     0   222        0     0    0    0        0      0 105     19     0   124       19     0    24    0                           43           389
  04:15 PM       50 158      0     0   208        0     0    0    0        0      0 106     18     0   124       15     0    24    0                           39           371
  04:30 PM       49 202      0     0   251        0     0    0    0        0      0   93    22     0   115       16     0    39    0                           55           421
  04:45 PM       45 187      0     0   232        0     0    0    0        0      0 111     14     1   126       19     0    24    1                           44           402
      Total     175 738      0     0   913        0     0    0    0        0      0 415     73     1   489       69     0 111      1                          181          1583

  05:00 PM      63   175      0     0    238      0     0      0     0          0      0     120      22          0   142     14      0      19        0       33           413
  05:15 PM      57   212      0     0    269      0     0      0     0          0      0     123      31          0   154     16      0      30        0       46           469
  05:30 PM      73   228      0     0    301      0     0      0     0          0      0     130      18          0   148     15      0      26        0       41           490
  05:45 PM      50   254      0     0    304      0     0      0     0          0      0      78      15          1    94     16      0      19        2       37           435
      Total    243   869      0     0   1112      0     0      0     0          0      0     451      86          1   538     61      0      94        2      157          1807

 Grand Total    418 1607      0     0   2025      0     0      0     0          0      0 866 159               2      1027  130       0 205          3        338          3390
  Apprch %     20.6 79.4      0     0             0     0      0     0                 0 84.3 15.5           0.2           38.5       0 60.7       0.9
   Total %     12.3 47.4      0     0    59.7     0     0      0     0          0      0 25.5  4.7           0.1      30.3  3.8       0    6       0.1          10




                     SANTA TERESA BLVD                                                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                           SUNRISE DR
                           Southbound                      Westbound                         Northbound                               Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left   App. Total   Right Thru    Left App. Total          Right   Thru   Left       App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM        63      175       0       238       0    0      0            0       0     120          22        142      14        0        19          33             413
    05:15 PM        57      212       0       269       0    0      0            0       0     123          31        154      16        0        30          46             469
    05:30 PM        73      228       0       301       0    0      0            0       0     130           18       148      15        0      26           41              490
    05:45 PM        50      254       0       304       0    0      0            0       0       78          15        93      16        0      19           35             432
 Total Volume      243      869       0     1112        0    0      0            0       0      451          86       537      61        0      94          155            1804
 % App. Total     21.9     78.1       0                 0    0      0                    0       84          16              39.4        0    60.6
          PHF     .832     .855    .000      .914    .000 .000   .000        .000     .000     .867        .694       .872   .953     .000    .783         .842             .920
                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                                         Campbell, CA
                                                                         (408) 377-2988
                                                                         tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                       File Name           : 5AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                       Site Code           : 00000005
                                                                                                                                       Start Date          : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                       Page No             :1
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                 FITZGERALD AVE                SANTA TERESA BLVD                 FITZGERALD AVE
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Eastbound
 Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                             Int. Total
  07:00 AM        0   12     1     0      13      5     1  38     0       44 100 168         2     0   270        0     0     0    0       0                                  327
  07:15 AM        0   20     4     0      24      3     2  48     0       53     91 127      3     0   221        2     2     0    0       4                                  302
  07:30 AM        0   41     5     0      46      9     2  55     0       66     92 124      0     0   216        1     5     1    0       7                                  335
  07:45 AM        1   47     6     0      54      9     0  94     0    103       87   70     1     0   158        0     3     0    0       3                                  318
      Total       1 120     16     0   137       26     5 235     0    266 370 489           6     0   865        3    10     1    0      14                                 1282

  08:00 AM        0    29      8      0      37     10      2    56      0      68     114      86       0           0   200      0      3        0        0      3           308
  08:15 AM        0    28      4      0      32      6      1    36      0      43     110      89       3           0   202      1      0        0        0      1           278
  08:30 AM        0    32      8      0      40      3      3    24      0      30     104      57       1           0   162      4      0        0        0      4           236
  08:45 AM        0    30      4      0      34      1      1    23      0      25      73      49       0           0   122      1      0        1        0      2           183
      Total       0   119     24      0     143     20      7   139      0     166     401     281       4           0   686      6      3        1        0     10          1005

 Grand Total      1 239    40         0     280   46       12 374        0     432  771 770              10          0   1551    9   13            2       0     24          2287
  Apprch %      0.4 85.4 14.3         0         10.6      2.8 86.6       0         49.7 49.6            0.6          0        37.5 54.2          8.3       0
   Total %        0 10.5  1.7         0    12.2    2      0.5 16.4       0    18.9 33.7 33.7            0.4          0   67.8  0.4  0.6          0.1       0          1




                     SANTA TERESA BLVD                    FITZGERALD AVE                  SANTA TERESA BLVD                          FITZGERALD AVE
                           Southbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                                 Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru       Left App. Total   Right Thru    Left App. Total            Right Thru     Left App. Total            Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM          0      12       1        13       5       1     38        44      100      168            2        270       0         0         0         0             327
    07:15 AM          0      20       4        24       3       2     48        53        91      127           3        221       2         2         0         4             302
    07:30 AM          0      41       5        46       9       2     55        66        92      124            0       216       1         5         1         7             335
    07:45 AM          1      47       6        54       9       0     94       103        87       70            1       158       0       3          0          3            318
 Total Volume         1     120      16       137      26       5    235       266       370      489            6       865       3      10          1         14           1282
 % App. Total      0.7     87.6    11.7               9.8     1.9   88.3                42.8     56.5          0.7              21.4    71.4        7.1
          PHF     .250     .638    .667      .634    .722    .625   .625      .646      .925     .728         .500       .801   .375    .500       .250        .500           .957
                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                                         Campbell, CA
                                                                         (408) 377-2988
                                                                         tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                         File Name         : 5PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                         Site Code         : 00000005
                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                         Page No           :1
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   SANTA TERESA BLVD                 FITZGERALD AVE                SANTA TERESA BLVD                 FITZGERALD AVE
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Eastbound
 Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                             Int. Total
  04:00 PM        0   59     4     0      63      3     2 101     0    106       45   40     2     0      87      1     2     0    0       3                                  259
  04:15 PM        0   66     4     0      70      2     3  94     0       99     55   47     1     0   103        1     3     0    0       4                                  276
  04:30 PM        0   74    10     0      84      5     2 123     0    130       66   35     1     0   102        2     2     1    0       5                                  321
  04:45 PM        0   63     4     0      67      4     0 104     0    108       56   32     0     0      88      3     1     0    0       4                                  267
      Total       0 262     22     0   284       14     7 422     0    443 222 154           4     0   380        7     8     1    0      16                                 1123

  05:00 PM        0    82      6      0      88      5      1    97      0     103      54      58         2           0   114      1      0       0       0          1       306
  05:15 PM        0    84      8      0      92      8      2   141      0     151      59      50         1           0   110      1      0       0       0          1       354
  05:30 PM        1   110      5      0     116      3      1   118      0     122      46      51         2           0    99      1      1       0       0          2       339
  05:45 PM        0   102      7      0     109      6      2   118      0     126      50      29         0           0    79      1      0       3       0          4       318
      Total       1   378     26      0     405     22      6   474      0     502     209     188         5           0   402      4      1       3       0          8      1317

 Grand Total      1 640       48      0     689     36     13 896        0     945  431 342                 9          0   782    11    9    4             0     24          2440
  Apprch %      0.1 92.9       7      0            3.8    1.4 94.8       0         55.1 43.7              1.2          0        45.8 37.5 16.7             0
   Total %        0 26.2       2      0    28.2    1.5    0.5 36.7       0    38.7 17.7   14              0.4          0     32  0.5  0.4  0.2             0          1




                     SANTA TERESA BLVD                    FITZGERALD AVE                  SANTA TERESA BLVD                            FITZGERALD AVE
                           Southbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru       Left App. Total   Right Thru    Left App. Total              Right Thru     Left App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
    05:00 PM          0      82        6       88       5       1     97       103       54          58           2        114       1         0       0         1             306
    05:15 PM          0      84        8       92       8       2    141       151       59        50              1       110       1         0       0         1             354
    05:30 PM          1     110        5      116       3       1    118       122        46       51              2        99       1         1       0         2            339
    05:45 PM          0     102        7      109       6       2    118       126        50       29              0        79       1       0         3         4            318
 Total Volume         1     378       26      405      22       6    474       502       209      188              5       402       4       1        3          8           1317
 % App. Total      0.2     93.3      6.4              4.4     1.2   94.4                  52     46.8            1.2                50    12.5     37.5
          PHF     .250     .859    .813      .873    .688    .750   .840      .831      .886     .810           .625       .882   1.00    .250     .250        .500           .930
                                                             Traffic Data Service
                                                                          Campbell, CA
                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                  File Name          : 6AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                  Site Code          : 00000006
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date         : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                                  Page No            :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      MONTEREY RD                             MASTEN AVE                     MONTEREY RD                                          FITZGERALD AVE
                        Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                             Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total       Int. Total
  07:00 AM       3     25    6     0       34         26     38   22     0       86     81 179      1     0                    261           3      76    31    0   110              491
  07:15 AM      10     41    9     0       60         21     36   22     0       79     61 193      3     0                    257           2      66    33    0   101              497
  07:30 AM      18     44    3     0       65         27     49   30     0    106       67 188      8     0                    263           4      68    19    0      91            525
  07:45 AM      16     52   10     1       79         10     68   46     0    124       74 146     16     0                    236           4      88    12    1   105              544
      Total     47   162    28     1      238         84    191 120      0    395 283 706          28     0                   1017          13     298    95    1   407             2057

  08:00 AM      11    49     8     0       68          9     43    34     0        86       73      91       6           0      170         10     89      18        0    117        441
  08:15 AM       6    41     4     0       51          4     30    33     0        67       75      94       4           0      173          4    108      17        0    129        420
  08:30 AM       5    33     5     0       43          9     21    23     0        53       59      55       3           0      117          5    104      14        0    123        336
  08:45 AM       3    39     3     0       45          2     23    24     0        49       63      61       0           0      124          1     75       5        0     81        299
      Total     25   162    20     0      207         24    117   114     0       255      270     301      13           0      584         20    376      54        0    450       1496

 Grand Total    72 324     48      1      445  108 308            234     0       650  553 1007              41          0    1601          33 674 149             1      857       3553
  Apprch %     16.2 72.8 10.8    0.2          16.6 47.4            36     0           34.5 62.9             2.6          0                 3.9 78.6 17.4         0.1
   Total %        2  9.1  1.4      0     12.5    3  8.7           6.6     0      18.3 15.6 28.3             1.2          0     45.1        0.9   19  4.2           0      24.1




                         MONTEREY RD                      MASTEN AVE                            MONTEREY RD                                    FITZGERALD AVE
                           Southbound                      Westbound                              Northbound                                       Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left        App. Total   Right Thru    Left App. Total                  Right Thru     Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
    07:00 AM          3      25       6        34      26   38     22               86       81      179            1           261           3       76        31       110          491
    07:15 AM        10       41       9        60      21   36     22               79        61     193            3           257           2       66        33       101          497
    07:30 AM        18       44       3        65      27   49     30              106        67      188           8           263           4       68      19          91          525
    07:45 AM        16       52      10        78      10   68     46              124        74      146          16         236             4       88      12         104          542
 Total Volume       47      162      28       237      84  191    120              395       283      706           28       1017            13      298      95         406        2055
 % App. Total     19.8     68.4    11.8              21.3 48.4   30.4                       27.8     69.4          2.8                      3.2     73.4    23.4
          PHF     .653     .779    .700      .760    .778 .702   .652             .796      .873     .915         .438         .967        .813     .847    .720         .923        .948
                                                             Traffic Data Service
                                                                          Campbell, CA
                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com

                                                                                                                                                    File Name          : 6PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code          : 00000006
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date         : 9/10/2013
                                                                                                                                                    Page No            :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      MONTEREY RD                             MASTEN AVE                     MONTEREY RD                                            FITZGERALD AVE
                        Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                               Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total       Int. Total
  04:00 PM      18   109    20     0      147          9     84   90     0    183       31    61    3     0                        95          5      44     5    0      54            479
  04:15 PM      18   107     5     0      130          7     84   81     0    172       33    55    6     0                        94          4      54     8    0      66            462
  04:30 PM      16   124    17     0      157         13    110   87     0    210       34    47    3     0                        84          7      56    11    0      74            525
  04:45 PM      22   130    16     0      168         12     99 100      0    211       49    50    0     0                        99          0      51    13    0      64            542
      Total     74   470    58     0      602         41    377 358      0    776 147 213          12     0                       372         16     205    37    0   258             2008

  05:00 PM      17   133    20     0      170          9     93    90     0       192       43      68         6           0      117          6     58       7        0     71        550
  05:15 PM      24   118    11     0      153          8    127   112     0       247       39      56         1           0       96          3     48      11        0     62        558
  05:30 PM      21   116     8     0      145          8     90   116     0       214       35      72         4           0      111          4     46      10        0     60        530
  05:45 PM      19    94    15     0      128          5    117   117     1       240       45      55         1           0      101          1     47      10        0     58        527
      Total     81   461    54     0      596         30    427   435     1       893      162     251        12           0      425         14    199      38        0    251       2165

 Grand Total    155 931    112     0    1198          71 804 793          1     1669    309 464                24          0      797         30 404    75             0    509       4173
  Apprch %     12.9 77.7   9.3     0                 4.3 48.2 47.5      0.1            38.8 58.2                3          0                 5.9 79.4 14.7             0
   Total %      3.7 22.3   2.7     0     28.7        1.7 19.3   19        0         40  7.4 11.1              0.6          0     19.1        0.7  9.7  1.8             0    12.2




                         MONTEREY RD                      MASTEN AVE                            MONTEREY RD                                      FITZGERALD AVE
                           Southbound                      Westbound                              Northbound                                         Eastbound
   Start Time Right Thru            Left App. Total Right Thru    Left        App. Total   Right Thru    Left App. Total                    Right Thru     Left App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
    04:45 PM        22      130       16      168      12   99    100              211       49          50           0             99          0       51        13        64          542
    05:00 PM        17      133       20      170       9   93     90              192        43         68           6           117           6       58       7          71          550
    05:15 PM        24      118       11      153       8  127    112              247        39         56            1           96           3       48      11          62          558
    05:30 PM        21      116        8      145       8   90    116              214        35         72            4          111           4       46      10          60         530
 Total Volume       84      497       55      636      37  409    418              864       166      246             11          423          13      203      41         257        2180
 % App. Total     13.2     78.1      8.6              4.3 47.3   48.4                       39.2     58.2            2.6                      5.1       79      16
          PHF     .875     .934    .688      .935    .771 .805   .901             .874      .847     .854           .458         .904        .542     .875    .788         .905        .977
