TRAFFIC ENGINEERING
       STUDY
                   FOR


 ANNAPOLIS DRIVE TRAFFIC
  CALMING INVESTIGATION
         Evesham Township
   Burlington County, New Jersey

    DECEMBER 6, 2010
              Prepared For
        Township of Evesham
         984 Tuckerton Road
          Marlton, NJ 08053

              Prepared By
    MASER CONSULTING P.A.
    331 Newman Springs Road, Suite 203
           Red Bank, NJ 07701
              732.383.1950
         www.maserconsulting.com




   S. Maurice Rached, PE, PTOE
       NJ License No. 37963

     MC Project No. EVT ­ 013


    NEW JERSEY · NEW YORK · PENNSYLVANIA
                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.        INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................................... 1
II.       EXISTING CONDITIONS........................................................................................................... 1
III.      FIELD INVESTIGATION ........................................................................................................... 3
IV.       DATA COLLECTION................................................................................................................. 6
V.        TRAFFIC CALMING MITIGATION ........................................................................................... 8
VI.       SUMMARY & CONCLUSIONS ................................................................................................ 12
VII.      RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................................................................ 13


FIGURES
FIGURE 1. SITE LOCATION MAP .................................................................................................... 1
FIGURE 2. TRAFFIC PATTERNS ...................................................................................................... 5


APPENDIX
APPENDIX A...................................................... DATA COLLECTION BY EVESHAM TOWNSHIP P.D.
APPENDIX B................................................................ DATA COLLECTION BY MASER CONSULTING
APPENDIX C ..................................................................................... MASER CONSULTING PLAN SET
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                                Page 1 of 13


 I.    INTRODUCTION
Maser Consulting, P.A. (Maser) has been retained by Evesham Township (Evesham) to prepare a
Traffic Engineering Study in the vicinity of Annapolis Drive, a local roadway which traverses a
highly residential neighborhood. Annapolis Drive is positioned between two (2) residential
communities and is designed to provide local residents direct access to/from North Locust Avenue
and Evesboro-Medford Road. This traffic engineering study was requested by Evesham to
investigate the presence of "cut-through" traffic in the vicinity of Annapolis Drive.

 "Cut-through" traffic volumes are created on local roadways as a result of motorist trips diverting
from a major roadway in order to escape traffic congestion or to seek a more direct route to a
destination. The local residents have cited "cut-through" traffic generated by the local recreational
facility, Evesboro-Downs Park, specifically during the evening peak hours. "Cut-through" traffic is
of growing concern to residents in the area, as the residential streets were not designed to carry high
volumes of through traffic.

Maser will examine the data collected by Evesham and local traffic generators to determine the
presence of "cut-through" traffic volumes and recommend appropriate traffic mitigation. A
previous "cut-through" traffic engineering study was conducted in 2008; however, local community
interest has determined the conditions be reanalyzed based upon current 2010 data.

II.    EXISTING CONDITIONS
The "cut-through" route requires motorists to utilize a series of roadways between North Locust
Avenue and Evesboro-Medford Road. However, Annapolis Drive links traffic between the two
(2) major residential developments, which enables traffic to access Evesboro-Downs Park
directly. The roadway details of Annapolis Drive are provided below.
       Annapolis Drive is a local roadway that originates at Columbia Drive and terminates at
       Lexington Circle. The local roadway geometry creates a link between the two major
       roadways in the area, North Locust Avenue and Evesboro-Medford Road, with Annapolis
       Drive the main connecting route. The roadway supports two-way traffic volumes and has
       a speed limit of 25 MPH.

Evesboro-Downs Park is located at the intersection of Phoenix Road and Evesboro-Medford
Road and contains fields that support football, soccer, lacrosse and general recreational
opportunities.     Through discussions with the Evesham Township Recreation & Parks
Department, Maser discovered that these facilities are highly popular during the nights and
weekends. Additionally, Evesboro-Downs Park is utilized throughout the year due to the lack of
supplemental facilities in the area. In addition to the local park, Frances S. DeMasi Elementary
& Middle School are located in the project vicinity and may be an additional generator of "cut-
through" traffic as well. The expected "cut-through" route, surrounding roadway network and
adjacent traffic generators are identified within Figure 1 on the following page.
    LEGEND
"Cut-Through" Route                       FIGURE
Study Roadways        SITE LOCATION MAP
Evesboro Downs Park                         1
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                            Page 3 of 13


III.   FIELD INVESTIGATION
A field investigation was conducted to obtain an inventory of roadway conditions, posted traffic
controls, adjacent land uses and lane configurations of the roadways in the study area. The
existing arterials within the project vicinity are detailed below.
       North Maple Avenue (County Route 607) is an urban minor arterial that originates at
       Route 73 and terminates at Church Street (County Route 616). County Route 607
       continues past County Route 616 as Church Road. The portion of roadway that is
       utilized by motorists bound to the Evesboro-Downs Park has a width of fifty-seven feet
       (57') and supports four lanes of traffic. The posted speed limit is 45 MPH.

       East Greentree Road (County Route 674) is an urban minor arterial that originates at
       County Route 607 and terminates at County Route 616 / County Route 618. The portion
       of roadway that is utilized by motorists bound to the Evesboro-Downs Park has a width
       of fifty-one feet (51') and supports four lanes of traffic. The posted speed limit is 45
       MPH.

       Evesboro-Medford Road is an urban minor arterial that originates at County Route 616
       and terminates at Route 70. The portion of roadway that is utilized by motorists bound to
       the Evesboro-Downs Park is a local roadway. East of the park Evesboro-Medford Road
       is under the jurisdiction of Burlington County and is known as County Route 618. West
       of the park, Evesboro-Medford Road has a variable roadway width from forty feet (40'),
       which supports three (3) lanes to twenty-four feet (24'), which supports two (2) lanes and
       two feet (2') shoulders. The posted speed limit is 25 MPH.

The following section of the report details the findings of the on-site field investigation of the
"cut-through" route and preferred alternative route proposed by the Township. These routes are
details within Figure 2 of this report.

   A. "CUT-THROUGH" ROUTE
A time trial run from North Locust
Avenue to the Evesboro-Downs Park was
conducted utilizing the existing "Cut-
Through".         The travel time was
determined to be three minutes and
nineteen seconds (199 seconds). All
posted speed limit and regulatory signs
were obeyed during the travel time trial.
To supplement the posted traffic control,
Annapolis Drive includes on-street
pavement markings which read "25 MPH
SLOW".         The photo to the right
illustrates the existing traffic markings.

                                               Photo 1 ­ Annapolis Drive Pavement Markings
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                           Page 4 of 13

Annapolis Drive does not require a
permit for on-street parking; however,
Phoenix Road (north of Annapolis Drive)
regulates on-street parking with permit
parking only between the hours of
5:00PM and 9:00PM during weekdays
and 9:00AM ­ 5:00PM on Saturdays
during the months of August, September,
October and November.

These regulations are indicative of the
volume of traffic generated by the park
and that residents adjacent to the Phoenix
Road      entrance     required    parking
restrictions to be implemented due to the
volume of vehicles. Additionally, with
parking regulations in place during the          Photo 2 ­ Phoenix Road Parking Regulation
parks peak hours of operation, the "cut-through" route serves as only a quicker route to the park
and not as a potential parking area. The photo inset details the existing parking sign.

   B. PREFERRED ROUTE
Instead of motorists traversing through the local residential communities, motorists should be
using roadways intended for through traffic. The intended and preferred route is detailed below.
   1. Motorists to continue north on Locust Avenue to North Maple Avenue (County Route
      607) where motorists shall perform a right-turn.
   2. At the next signalized intersection, East Greentree Road (County Route 674), motorists
      will need to make a second right-turn movement to access Evesboro-Medford Road.
   3. At this point, motorists will continue on Evesboro-Medford Road performing a slight
      right-turn to reach the main entrance to Evesboro-Downs Park.
The travel time from North Locust Avenue to the Evesboro-Downs Park utilizing the proposed
route was determined to be four minutes and fifty seconds (290 seconds), a 1 minute and thirty-
one second (91 seconds) increase from the "cut-through" route. All speed limit and regulatory
signs were obeyed during the travel time trial. Currently there are no existing signs on the
proposed route to direct traffic to the Evesboro-Medford Road entrance into the Evesboro-
Downs Park. This route is details within Figure 2 on the following page.

   C. BIRCH LANE ENTRANCE
A recommendation to install a third entrance to the parking from North Locust Avenue at the
intersection of Birch Lane was also proposed. Although a third entrance on the southern side of
the Evesboro-Downs Park may shift traffic away from the local roadways, the construction of a
third entrance is not fiscally feasible
    LEGEND
"Cut-Through" Route                      FIGURE
Preferred Route       TRAFFIC PATTERNS
Evesboro Downs Park                        2
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                                  Page 6 of 13

The Evesboro-Downs Park was built and is operated with Green Acres funds and the
construction of a third entrance would significantly impact the available park space currently
being occupied. If the proposed improvements impact Green Acres funded property, a Diversion
Permit is required. This permit will allow encroachment onto lands purchased with Green Acres
funds. However, permit acquisition can take up to two years, with no guarantee that the
application would be approved. Based upon this information and the Township's desire to reach
a quick and cost-efficient solution, it is not proposed this alternative be investigated.

IV.      DATA COLLECTION
The time trials indicate that utilization of the "cut-through" movement results in a 31% reduction
in travel time. This reduction is significant enough to influence drivers to divert from the major
roadway. To determine the impact the "cut-through" movements are having on the existing
traffic operation, Maser performed data collection and analysis to assess the impact.

   A. ANNAPOLIS DRIVE TRAFFIC VOLUMES
The traffic volumes summarized below were collected by the ETPD during a one week period in
January of 2008. Based on the information provided, Maser investigated two specific aspects of
the local traffic. First, the weekend daily traffic volumes were compared to the weekday daily
traffic volumes. Second, Maser will examine the weekday traffic volumes, particularly the PM
Peak Hour Volumes. This analysis will help determine if "cut-through" traffic is present.

                                    Table 1 - Daily Traffic Volume Comparison
                    Day                         Weekday Average                 Saturday
                  Volume                                1159                      1297
                 Deviation*                             0.0%                     11.9%
      *Deviation from the average

The statistics in Table 1 show a significant increase in through traffic on Saturday when
compared to the average weekday. The significant increase in daily traffic volumes in a largely
residential zone coincide with the existing parking restrictions on Phoenix Road, thus supporting
the existence of "cut-through" traffic generated by Evesboro-Downs Park on the weekend.

                        Table 2 ­ 2008 Peak Hour Traffic Volume Comparison
                Peak Hour                       AM                          PM
                 Volume                         68                          98
                Deviation*                     0.0%                        44.5%
   *Deviation from the AM

The examination of peak hour traffic volumes shows that the PM Peak Hour contains
approximately 45% more traffic than the AM Peak Hour. Considering the local land uses are
essentially residential, traffic volumes should be relatively comparable in both the morning and
evening peak hour time periods. The significant difference in traffic volumes could be attributed
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                            Page 7 of 13

to Francis S. DeMasi School, however the dismissal time occurs much earlier than the PM Peak
Hour of 5:00PM.

Additional examination shows that the traffic volumes in the late evening, 8:00PM and 9:00PM,
are equivalent to the AM Peak Hour volumes. From this information, it can be hypothesized that
there is a local traffic generator producing early evening traffic volumes. Supplemental data
collection was performed at Annapolis Drive by Maser Consulting on Tuesday, November 23,
2010. This count was conducted during the PM Peak Hour of Operation (5:00PM ­ 6:00PM) to
correspond with the 2008 traffic counts. The 2010 count summarized below is provided in
Appendix B.

                  Table 3 ­ 2010 PM Peak Hour Traffic Volume Comparison
    County Year and Peak Hour            2008 PM                    2010 PM
             Volume                         98                         191
            Increase*                      0.0%                       94.4%
   *Increase from 2008



Analysis of the data from the above table shows the local traffic volumes on Annapolis Drive
have significantly increased from 2008 to 2010. There is approximately a ninety-four percent
(94%) increase in traffic from 2008 to 2010. Traffic growth of this magnitude can be attributed
to increased activity at Evesboro-Downs Park or increased utilization of the "cut-through"
movement.

Maser's analysis of the traffic volumes along Annapolis Drive determined that traffic volumes
increase during evening hours and on weekends. The increase in volumes occurs concurrently
with the expected utilization of Evesboro-Downs Park, which is the main traffic generator during
these time periods. These results support the assertion of the Township that Annapolis Drive is
subject to "cut-through" traffic volumes.

   B. ANNAPOLIS DRIVE SPEED STATISTICS
The traffic volumes collected support the presence of "cut-through" traffic along Annapolis
Drive. As discussed previously, the impacts of "cut-through" traffic can range from
environmental impacts (pollution) to quality of life issues (noise pollution). Maser utilized the
speed data provided to assess the impact of "cut-through" traffic volumes.
                           Table 3 - Annapolis Drive Speed Statistics
          Mean Speed         27 MPH                       85th Percentile Speed     32 MPH
            Pace Speed     21 - 30 MPH        Percent of Vehicles in Pace Speed      70.4%
           Speed Limit       25 MPH               Percent of Vehicles > 25 MPH       67.5%

The results from the speed data are conflicting. The 85th Percentile Speed indicates that speeding
may be a concern (as 32 MPH is 7 MPH greater than the posted speed limit); however, the pace
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                            Page 8 of 13

speed and percent of vehicles in the pace speed indicate a large majority of drivers are within 5
MPH of the posted speed limit. With 67.5% of drivers exceeding the 25 MPH speed limit, it is
reasonable to consider speed mitigations in this area. As a whole, it is difficult to establish if
increased vehicle speed is a product of "cut-through" traffic.

   C. CRASH HISTORY STATISTICS
Masers reviewed the accident reports in the project vicinity throughout the calendar year of
2007. From these reports, a total of five (5) accidents occurred along the projected "cut-through"
traffic route. The accident locations are as follows:
       Three (3) occurred at the intersection of Phoenix Road and Lexington Circle,
       One (1) occurred at the intersection of Annapolis Drive and Lexington Circle, and
       One (1) occurred at the intersection Phoenix Road and Evesboro-Medford Road.

The Township performed a follow up investigation and reviewed police crash records from
January 2008 to October 2010. In this time period, the Township investigated six (6) motor
vehicle collisions in the vicinity of Annapolis Drive. The accident locations are as follows:
       Four (4) occurred on Annapolis Drive,
       One (1) occurred on Lexington Circle, and
       One (1) occurred on Columbia Drive.

While the accident occurrence rate for a residential community may be slightly above average, a
review of these reports did not suggest that the presence of high traffic volumes were the result.
In most cases, the accidents were the cause of driver inattentiveness rather than volume capacity
conditions. Thus, the presence of "cut-through" traffic cannot be related to the accidents.

V.     TRAFFIC CALMING MITIGATION
Along Annapolis Drive, analysis of the recorded traffic volumes allows Maser to conclude that
local vehicles are utilizing local roadways at a higher rate during the weekends and weekday
evening peak hours. Given these facts, plus the information gathered from local agencies
regarding the operating conditions of Evesboro-Downs Park and the existing parking regulations
implemented adjacent to the Phoenix Road entrance, the contention of "cut-through" traffic
volumes is verified.

   A. REGULATIONS & SIGNAGE
The presence of "cut-through" traffic on Annapolis Drive can be counteracted using various
techniques. If the Township requires immediate results, the most cost-efficient approach for
reducing traffic volumes may be the use of signage. The most cost-efficient and effective
measures of reducing "cut-through" traffic along this route are listed below:

   1. Turn Prohibition Signs. Installing turn prohibition signs can reduce traffic volumes on
      neighborhood streets. These signs prohibit turns onto neighborhood streets during
       Traffic Engineering Study
       Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
       MC Project No: EVT-013                                                            Page 9 of 13

             specific hours of the day and the presence of local traffic enforcement to enforce the
             regulations during the initiation of these regulations will increase effectiveness.

       2. One Way Signs. Installing one way signs on local roadways can eliminate "cut-through"
          trips entirely by prohibiting travel in one direction. Additionally, some exiting trips may
          also bypass the "cut-through" route as exiting motorists tend to be more familiar and
          comfortable utilizing the route that they utilized to enter.

       3. Stop Signs. Strategic placement of stop signs can discourage through traffic from
          utilizing neighborhood streets along the "cut-through" traffic route and maintain traffic
          flow along major collectors and arterial streets. Stop signs reduce travel speed and as a
          result, increase travel time.

       4. Wayfinding Program. Wayfinding programs are utilized in towns and cities to direct
          traffic to the areas of interest locally. The posting of wayfinding signage will direct
          traffic to stay on the preferred route to reach the desired destination.

  Traffic Mitigation                    Advantages                             Disadvantages
                            Deter the potential for "cut-through"     Local traffic volumes unable to
Turn Prohibition Signs
                              traffic with police enforcement       access local roads; will be forced to
                            Limit the potential for "cut-through"    utilize alternative routes traveling
One-Way Signs                                                                   to/from home
                                    traffic in one direction
                                    Reduce Travel Speed               The "cut-through" route remains
Stop Signs
                                   Increased Travel Time             active. Motorists familiar with the
                            Directs traffic away from local roads     route will continue to utilize the
Wayfinding Program                                                    route due to reduced travel time
                               No Impact on Local Residents

   The table above summarizes the advantages and disadvantages associated with each of the
   proposed traffic mitigations. These programs can be implemented concurrently, for example, a
   wayfinding program can be implemented with any of the other three (3) mitigations to support
   the proposed route. Additionally, prohibiting turns at one location and implementing one-way
   traffic at another can hinder "cut-through" traffic. However, combining traffic mitigations in this
   manner can complicate local traffic circulation and should be studied thoroughly before being
   implemented. Additionally, these mitigations will deter, but not eliminate or prevent "cut-
   through" traffic movements. The prohibition of turning movements will also need police
   enforcement to attain the desired result.
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                          Page 10 of 13


   B. VERTICAL DEFLECTION DEVICES
The more effective, yet slightly more expensive approach for reducing traffic volumes is the use
of vertical deflection devices. These physical devices can dramatically slow down traffic that
utilize the "cut-through", eliminating the advantages gained by utilizing a "cut-through"
movement. The most effective improvements are detailed below:

   1. Raised Intersections.           Raising an
      intersection moderately lowers vehicular
      speed at a particular intersection. It also
      reduces vehicle-pedestrian conflicts by
      providing better visibility for pedestrians.
      However, it does not significantly reduce
      the traffic volumes that pass through the
      intersection. All-way stop signs can also
      be installed to further reduce speed.

       Cost of raised intersection typically ranges
       from $15,000 to $60,000. An illustration of
       a typical speed hump installation is shown
       in the figure to the right.
                                                            Figure 3 ­ Raised Intersection
   2. Speed Humps. Speed Humps are the least
      expensive vertical deflection device. The
      roadway surface is raised typically three
      inches (3") to four inches (4") in height and
      twelve feet (12') to twenty feet (20') in
      length. Speed humps are very effective in
      slowing traffic on residential streets,
      reducing noise pollution caused by
      accelerating vehicles, and can reduce
      traffic volume on the roadways.

       Additionally, it is relatively inexpensive to
       install and maintain, with costs ranging
       between $1,500 and $3,500.

       Speed humps are problematic to install, as              Figure 4 ­ Speed Humps
       the location of residential driveways, on-
       street drainage facilities, manhole covers/sewer access and distance from an existing
       intersection all impact speed hump placement. Additionally, residents typically do not
       support the installation of speed humps as it disrupts on-street parking and aesthetic
       conditions adjacent to their property. An illustration of a typical speed hump installation
       is shown in the figure above.
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                           Page 11 of 13


   C. PHYSICAL OBSTRUCTIONS
Another method of roadway improvement is the use of physical obstructions, such as street
barriers. Street Barriers are physical obstructions installed on roadways that eliminate vehicular
access to neighborhood streets. In the specific case of Evesham Township, semi-diverters are an
alternative that may create the results desired.

   3. Semi-Diverters. Semi-diverters prevent
      travel in one direction on a street by
      blocking half the street with a physical
      barrier. These barriers create a one-way
      roadway at the point of the installation, but
      maintain two-way traffic volumes on the
      remaining sections of the street.

       These installations are the most effective
       traffic calming measures in reducing
       traffic volumes and are normally used on
       local roadways to reduce "cut-through"
       traffic volumes. Studies have shown semi-
       diverters can reduce traffic volumes by
       forty to sixty percent (40% to 60%). The                Figure 5 ­ Semi-Diverters
       cost of a semi-diverter ranges from $3,000
       to $20,000. An illustration of a typical
       semi-diverter installation is shown in the
       accompanying figure.

   4. Right-In/Right-Out Island.           Right-
      In/Right-Out islands are a type of
      intersection channelization that prevents
      left-turn and through movements to/from
      side streets and local roadways. These
      installations are commonly used at the
      intersections of side streets with major
      arterials and are primarily utilized to
      reduce "cut-through" traffic on local
      streets. These installations do not reduce
      speed but can reduce traffic volumes by
      twenty to sixty percent (40% to 60%).
      The cost of a channelized right-turn island
      range from $3,500 to $7,500.             An
      illustration of a typical channelized right-
      turn island is shown in the accompanying            Figure 6 ­ Right-In/Right-Out Island
      figure.
   Traffic Engineering Study
   Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
   MC Project No: EVT-013                                                            Page 12 of 13

The table below summarizes the impact associated with each of the four (4) roadway
improvements with respect to volume and speed reduction. As stated previously, the roadway
improvements will reduce traffic volumes more significantly than vertical deflection devices.
However, these roadway improvements will impact both "cut-through" traffic and local traffic
volumes.

                                                                               Speed
         Traffic Mitigation              Volume Reduction
                                                                             Reduction
   Raised Intersections                    Minimal Impact                Moderate Impact

   Speed Humps                             Minimal Impact                Significant Impact

   Semi-Diverters                         Significant Impact             Moderate Impact

   Channelized Island                     Moderate Impact                 Minimal Impact


VI.    SUMMARY & CONCLUSIONS
Overall, the data analysis performed by Maser supports the Township and resident assertion that
"cut-through" traffic is present along Annapolis Drive. The increased evening and weekend
volumes, as well as existing parking regulations adjacent to the park, verify these contentions.

There are several options available to the Township of Evesham to mitigate, and potentially
eliminate, "cut-through" traffic along Annapolis Drive. The following summarizes the
feasibility of implementing the traffic mitigation alternatives.

   A. Regulation/Signage
       These proposed regulation and signage improvements are the most immediate and
       straightforward mitigation to discourage "cut-through" traffic. They provide easy
       installation, can be implemented immediately and are the most cost-efficient option
       available to the Township.

   B. Vertical Deflection Devices
       Although speed humps and raised intersections may slow existing traffic and deter "cut-
       through" traffic, the calming devices cannot be implemented along Annapolis Drive in a
       manner that will provide the significant reductions in traffic due to the high number of
       residential driveways. Additionally, these installations will not restrict traffic volumes in
       the same manner as regulatory signage.

   C. Physical Obstructions
       Similar to regulatory signage and striping, physical obstructions effectively control traffic
       flow by redirecting traffic along a roadway network. The disadvantage of installing these
      Traffic Engineering Study
      Annapolis Drive "Cut-Through" Study
      MC Project No: EVT-013                                                            Page 13 of 13

           devices is they will permanently alter local traffic operations and can disrupt the
           accessibility of emergency vehicles. Furthermore the residential housing density and
           associated cost limits the constructability of these improvements

VII.       RECOMMENDATIONS
 Based on the existing operating conditions along Annapolis Drive, it is the opinion of Maser that
 the most effective way to divert "cut-through" traffic is to prohibit traffic along the "cut-through"
 route and install a series of regulatory signs which can be strategically placed throughout the
 roadway network to restrict the existing "cut-through" traffic volumes.

 The proposed regulatory sign recommendations are intended to restrict travel along the existing
 residential streets to local traffic only. The roads being traversed as part of "cut-through" route
 are by definition residential streets and are not designed to accommodate the existing daily or
 peak hour traffic volumes. The Residential Site Improvement Standards (N.J.A.C. 5:21) (RSIS)
 defines residential streets as follows:
           "...a residential streets as "the lowest order, other than rural street type, of residential
           street. Provides frontage for access to private lots and carries traffic having destination
           or origin on the street itself. Designed to carry traffic at slowest speed;"

 In this case, local traffic is defined as traffic that originates within the surrounding residential
 communities of Evesham Township, with the through traffic identified as all traffic which
 originates anywhere outside the community.

      ·    In accordance with the RSIS standards, the proposed regulatory measures should be
           implemented to reduce cut-through traffic on Columbia Drive, Annapolis Drive,
           Lexington Circle, and Phoenix Road.
      ·    Overall, the proposed regulatory sign recommendations consist of eight (8) typical
           regulatory signs and thirteen (13) sign installations.
      ·    The regulatory signs recommended for Evesham Township shall be implemented in
           accordance with sheet 1 of 2 of the proposed plan, included within Appendix C of this
           report.

 To further support the proposed regulatory signage, Maser has designed an optional wayfinding
 program along North Locust Avenue to direct motorists from the Columbia Drive intersection to
 Evesboro-Downs Park. The wayfinding signs are positioned to direct traffic along the preferred
 route, described previously in this report. Plan sheet 2 of 2 within Appendix C of this report
 identifies the proposed wayfinding program.


 H:\EVT\EVT-013\Reports\11.24.10\112410_Traffic Engineering Study - JJC.docx
APPENDIX A
   EVESHAM TOWNSHIP P.D.
    2008 DATA COLLECTION
APPENDIX B
      MASER CONSULTING
    2010 DATA COLLECTION
                                                                   Maser Consulting, P.A.
                                                                              100 American Metro Boulevard, Suite 152
                                                                                   Hamilton, New Jersey, 08619
Counted By :IMichel                                                                                                                                      File Name       : Annapolis_and_Columbia
Date:11.23.10                                                                                                                                            Site Code       : EVT013
MC Project No.:EVT-013                                                                                                                                   Start Date      : 11/23/2010
Int.: Annapolis Drive & Columbia Drive                                                                                                                   Page No         :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                            Annapolis Drive                               Columbia Drive                                                                             Columbia Drive
                              Southbound                                    Westbound                                    Northbound                                    Eastbound
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left    Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left    Peds   App. Total  Right     Thru     Left   Peds    App. Total    Right   Thru     Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
    05:00 PM        13      0        2        0          15        0      2       0        0           2       0       0       0        0            0        0      1      19        0         20           37
    05:15 PM        17      0        3        0          20        2      1       0        0           3       0       0       0        0            0        0      2      36        0         38           61
    05:30 PM        22      0        1        0          23        2      1       0        0           3       0       0       0        0            0        0      1      31        0         32           58
    05:45 PM        22      0        3        0          25        2      0       0        0           2       0       0       0        0            0        0      1      16        0         17           44
         Total      74      0        9        0          83        6      4       0        0         10        0       0       0        0            0        0      5     102        0        107          200

  Grand Total      74       0       9        0           83       6       4       0        0        10        0        0       0       0             0       0       5     102       0         107          200
    Apprch %     89.2       0    10.8        0                   60      40       0        0                  0        0       0       0                     0     4.7    95.3       0
      Total %      37       0     4.5        0         41.5       3       2       0        0          5       0        0       0       0             0       0     2.5      51       0         53.5
APPENDIX C
 MASER CONSULTING PLAN SET
                                      3                                   1
                                          3                                              2

                                                                                 3           1
           LOCAL
          TRAFFIC
            ONLY

                                                                                                 2
                                           PH




                                                                                     E
                                              O   EN




                                                                                   CL
                                                    IX
                                                               RO




                                                                                CIR
                                                                 AD




                                                                             ON
                                                                          GT
                                                                       XIN
EXCEPT              EXCEPT




                                                                     LE
 LOCAL               LOCAL
TRAFFIC             TRAFFIC




                                                               IVE
                                                   ANNAPOLIS DR
                                       2
                                                     IVE
                                                   DR
                                            BIA
                                          UM
                                        ML
                                      CO



                                  1
                              3
6
    5

        4
                7


                        8




            3
                        2             PH




                                                                             E
                                         O   EN




                                                                           CL
                                                IX
                                                           RO




                                                                        CIR
                                                                 AD




                                                                      ON
                                                                      GT
                                                                  XIN
                                                                 LE
                                                  IVE
                                                  ANNAPOLIS DR
                                                    IVE
                                                  DR
                                         B   IA
                                      UM
                                 ML
                            CO




                    1
