                                           MEMORANDUM

Date:              April 13, 2011

To:                Karli Grigsby, David J. Powers & Associates, Inc.

From:              Greg Ripa and Robert Eckols, P.E.

Subject:           Finger Avenue Traffic Impact Analysis Peer Review
                                                                                                SJ11-1248

This memorandum presents the results of the peer review conducted for the Finger Avenue
Residential Subdivision Traffic Impact Analysis1. The Finger Avenue Residential project is located
in Redwood City, California. We generally concur with the findings in the analysis, but our
comments below detail a few items that should be addressed prior to finalizing the project
documentation.

OVERVIEW

RKH Civil and Transportation Engineering prepared a Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) dated October
January 26, 2011 for the proposed residential subdivision project. The project site is located on
the north side of Finger Avenue and is generally northwest of the intersection of Whipple Avenue
and El Camino Real, in Redwood City, California. The subdivision project consists of replacing
three (3) single-family detached homes and three (3) accessory dwelling units with nine (9)
single-family detached homes (a net increase of three homes).

The study was reviewed for adequacy and appropriateness of project trip generation, distribution,
and assignment, as well as level of service methods and analysis assumptions. The circulation,
parking, and alternative site plan analyses were also reviewed for adequacy and appropriateness.

Generally, the TIA follows industry standards and approaches. The TIA also addresses typical
areas of concern for this type of analysis.

STUDY AREA AND DATA COLLECTION

The choice of one study intersection is reasonable due to the small number of net new trips
generated by the proposed development. The RKH report stated that "peak period traffic counts
were taken on Friday, January 7, 2011, from 7:00am to 9:00am and Wednesday, January 5,
2011, from 4:00pm to 6:00pm." Also, daily (24-hour) traffic counts were taken on Tuesday,
January 4, 2011.

Typically, traffic volumes are not collected on Friday mornings due to possible different trip
characteristics on Fridays versus midweek days (Tuesday through Thursday) when traffic counts
are commonly collected. Since both the morning peak hour counts and the daily (24-hour) counts
were taken during the same week, a comparison was made between the daily counts taken on
Finger Avenue on Tuesday, January 4th and the morning peak hour counts taken on Friday,
January 7th. This comparison showed that the Friday counts were higher than the AM peak hour

1
 Traffic Impact Analysis Residential Subdivision Finger Avenue Redwood City, California prepared by RKH
Civil and Transportation Engineering and dated January 26, 2011.

        160 W. Santa Clara Street, Suite 675    San Jose CA 95113 (408) 278-1700   Fax (408) 278-1717
                                               www.fehrandpeers.com
Karli Grigsby
April 13, 2011
Page 2 of 6




volume counted in the 24-hour traffic counts on the Tuesday. Therefore, it is acceptable to use
the Friday morning turning movement volumes since they were higher than the midweek volume.

TRIP GENERATION, DISTRIBUTION, AND ASSIGNMENT ASSUMPTIONS

The project trip generation estimates were reviewed and found to be consistent with the single
family dwelling unit rates published in Trip Generation, 8th Edition, Institute of Transportation
Engineers (ITE). Lacking trip making characteristics of accessory dwelling units since they are
not shown in the Trip Generation, it is reasonable to estimate the traffic generated by the
secondary dwelling units using the land use category of low rise apartments. The lower rate
would account for these being smaller units than a single family detached unit. The trip
distribution patterns and trip assignment were reviewed and were generally found to be
reasonable based on existing turning movement volumes at the intersection of Finger Avenue / El
Camino Real. In fact, the trip assignment may be conservative since it assumes all of the project
trips would use the Finger Avenue / El Camino Real intersection even though there are potential
alternative routes out of the neighborhood via Hyde Street, Avondale and Edgewood.

INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS) AND QUEUE CALCULATIONS

Intersection levels of service (LOS) analyses were performed based on the Highway Capacity
Manual, Transportation Research Board, 2000. The TIA assesses project impacts under Existing,
and Existing Plus Project conditions. These two scenarios are reasonable based on the size and
scope of the project. The results of the LOS analysis are reasonable (e.g. they are what would be
expected given the traffic volumes at that intersection) and they show no impact due to the
addition of the project's peak hour trips.

Queue calculations are based on the methodology presented in the article by John Gard titled
Estimation of Maximum Queue Lengths at Unsignalized Intersections, ITE Journal, November
2001. This method estimates queue lengths based on empirical observations rather than on a
theoretical basis like other queue length estimation methods. Therefore, this method is
reasonable to use in the TIA and the results of the queuing analysis are also reasonable (e.g.
they are what would be expected given the traffic volumes at that intersection) and they show no
impact due to the project's peak hour trips.

TIRE INDEX

The Traffic Infusion on Residential Environments (TIRE) index is an industry standard practice to
determine the effects a project would have on the surrounding roadway system. Due to the low
trip making characteristics of this development, the increase in the TIRE index of 0.02 is
reasonable (e.g. it is what would be expected given the traffic volumes on Finger Avenue) and
shows no impact due to the project's daily trips.

SITE ACCESS AND CIRCULATION

The report describes that the on-site access is provided by a roadway that would be between 16
and 18 feet wide on straight sections and approximately 21 feet wide on the curves. There are
four feet of pervious pavers and rolled curbs which would generally be used as a pedestrian
pathway. If needed, large vehicles such as fire trucks and garbage trucks could drive on those
pavers. Therefore, the total width of the roadway available to large vehicles would be between 20
and 22 feet wide.
Karli Grigsby
April 13, 2011
Page 3 of 6




The International Fire Code (IFC), which Redwood City adopted into its Municipal Code (12),
states that "fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less than 20 ft"2.
Therefore, the on-site circulating roadway meets the standard stated in the IFC since the total
width of the roadway (including pavers and curbs) which can be used for emergency vehicles is
between 20 and 22 feet wide. Furthermore, as stated in the article Skinny Streets and Fire
Trucks3, "outrigger spreads on ladder trucks are typically 16 feet wide. Hence, there is rarely
justification for more than 16 feet of clearance, and in low-rise areas where ladder trucks are
unnecessary, a clear width of 12 feet should suffice." Thus, although the proposed on-site
roadway width meets IFC standards and should be able to accommodate emergency vehicles,
we recommend that the report include a discussion about emergency vehicle access and
circulation.

The site plan was reviewed to determine the adequacy of the site plan recommendations and to
determine if other recommendations should be made. We concur with the recommendation made
on page 20 of the RKH report regarding one-way operation for the on-site circulation street.
However, during the site plan review, it was determined that the third residence on the right side
of the one-way roadway (see highlighted residence in Figure 1 below) would be difficult to access
due to the acute angle between the one-way circulating roadway and the driveway. Therefore, we
recommend either:

1. Reverse the one-way direction of the on-site circulating roadway from a counter-
   clockwise direction to a clock-wise direction (pros and cons of this approach are listed in
   Table 1 below). The residence on the inside corners of the horseshoe shaped circulating
   roadway ("horseshoe" residence shown in blue on Figure 1) should be reversed and have
   the driveway face the other direction (as shown on Figure 2). Note that this home may also
   need to be redesigned to fit within the required setbacks and comply with other city
   requirements.
2. Mirror the third home along its lengthwise axis as shown in Figure 2 so that the
   driveway would be closer to the fourth residence rather than the second (this would
   allow for a more perpendicular angle between the one-way circulating roadway and the
   driveway). Note that the home may also need to be redesigned to fit within the required
   setbacks and comply with other city requirements.




2
  International Fire Code, 503.2.1
3
  Reid Ewing, Ted Stevens, and Steven Brown. Skinny Streets and Fire Trucks, Urban Land, Urban Land
Institute. August 2007.
Karli Grigsby
April 13, 2011
Page 4 of 6




Figure 1: Location of third residence (shown in          Figure 2: Composite image of the third
orange) with the acute angle driveway and the            residence (shown in orange) after mirroring
"horseshoe" residence (shown in blue).                   along its lengthwise axis and the reversed
                                                         "horseshoe" residence (shown in blue).

                                             TABLE 1
                              ON-SITE CIRCULATING ROADWAY OPTIONS

                Option 1: Counter-Clockwise Direction               Option 2: Clockwise Direction
                (shown on Figure 2 of the RKH report)          (proposed as a recommendation above)
 Circulation      Counter-clockwise                            Clockwise
                  Entrance to roadway located closest to       Entrance to roadway located closest to
                  El Camino Real                               Hyde Street
     Pros         The majority of visitor parking spaces        The acute angle on the third residence
                  are seen immediately after entering the       faces the direction of travel so parking
                  circulating roadway.                          maneuvers are easier.
                  The entrance to the circulating               To recirculate using Finger Avenue, two
                  roadway is closer to El Camino Real           right turns are required and right turns are
                  which is intuitive since most people will     generally easier to make.
                  access the subdivision from that
                  direction.
     Cons         To recirculate using Finger Avenue,           The majority of visitor parking spaces are
                  two left turns are required and left turns    located at the end of the circulating
                  are generally more difficult to make.         roadway.
                  However, due to the low roadway               The entrance to the circulating roadway is
                  volumes, this turning maneuver should         farther from El Camino Real which is less
                  be comparable to a right-turn                 intuitive since most people will access the
                  The acute angle on the third residence        subdivision from that direction
                  makes maneuvering into and out of             The "horseshoe" residence on the inside
                  that residence difficult.                     corners of the horseshoe shaped
                                                                circulating roadway would need to be
                                                                reversed and face the other direction.
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2011
Karli Grigsby
April 13, 2011
Page 5 of 6




PARKING

The report states that there are four (4) parking spaces per dwelling unit (two in each garage plus
two on each driveway apron). However, this assumes that each garage would be used for parking
and not for storage or other uses. Therefore, we recommend that the report be revised to
account for only two spaces per dwelling unit. This revision would not alter the conclusions
that the parking provided exceeds the requirements of Redwood City's Zoning Code or the
estimated demand based on ITE's Parking Generation. The revised report could state that
although only two spaces are assumed per dwelling unit, the driveway apron may provide
additional parking supply opportunities in addition to the required spaces (garage spaces plus the
five visitor spaces) provided on-site.

The report also states that parking occupancy counts were performed on Finger Avenue in the
vicinity of the project site on one weekday and one weekend day from 6:00am to 8:00pm.
Generally, the highest residential parking demand is in the overnight hours and the parking
counts performed at 6:00am should adequately capture this demand.

ALTERNATIVE SITE PLANS

Four alternative site plans are discussed in the RKH report.

9-lot Alternatives

Like the proposed project, the 9-lot alternatives consist of replacing three (3) single-family
detached homes and three (3) accessory dwelling units with (9) single-family detached homes (a
net increase of three homes). But, instead of locating most homes on a one-way circulating
roadway, most homes would be located off of a two-way dead-end hammerhead roadway that is
24 feet wide. Large vehicle access to homes would require backing maneuvers and all guest
parking would be provided on the driveways of the individual homes. One of the 9-lot alternatives
would have the access roadway located closer to El Camino Real and the other alternative would
have the access roadway located farther from to El Camino Real (closer to Hyde Street).

We recommend that guest parking be provided along the roadway and that the report
should be updated to include a discussion about parking supply and demand as well as
City parking requirements for this alternative. An alternative approach would be to include
a legal requirement that the garages will only be used for vehicle parking and not storage.
For example, the report could note that under this alternative, the City Code parking requirements
would still be met and parking demand estimated by ITE's Parking Generation should be met by
the residence's garages and the availability of on-street parking since peak on-street demand is
less than 60%.

We concur with the discussion regarding truck access and backing maneuvers. Also, we
recommend that the report include a discussion about emergency vehicle access and
circulation for the 9-lot alternatives.

5-lot Alternative

This 5-lot alternative consists of replacing three (3) single-family detached homes and three (3)
accessory dwelling units with five (5) single-family detached homes and five (5) accessory
dwelling units (a net increase of four homes). There would not be a circulating roadway in this
alternative. We recommend that the report be updated to include a discussion about
parking supply and demand as well as City parking requirements. For example, the report
Karli Grigsby
April 13, 2011
Page 6 of 6




could include a statement such as "Each lot would be required to provide at least four parking
spaces to meet the City Code requirements and the parking demand estimates."

4-lot Alternative

Like the proposed project, this alternative consists of replacing three (3) single-family detached
homes and three (3) accessory dwelling units with (9) single-family detached homes (a net
increase of three homes). But, instead of locating most homes on a one-way circulating roadway,
most homes would be located off of a dead-end hammerhead roadway that is 24 feet wide. We
recommend that the report be updated to include a discussion about parking supply and
demand as well as City parking requirements. For example, the report could include a
statement such as "Each lot would be required to provide at least four parking spaces to meet the
City Code requirements and the parking demand estimates."

SAFETY

We concur with statements in the report such as "one-way streets are safer than two-way streets
insofar as eliminating head-on or sideswipe crashes." Furthermore, due to the low traffic volumes
on Finger Avenue and the low trip generation characteristics of the proposed project, there should
not be a substantial change in the safety of the surrounding roadways and the statements made
in the report about safety are reasonable.

CONCLUSIONS

We recommend that the traffic study be updated based on the comments shown above in bold
text (as well as reprinted below) and be submitted to the City for final review.

We recommend that:

        The report include a discussion about emergency vehicle access and circulation
        The site plan and report be updated so that either:
           o The one-way direction of the on-site circulating roadway is reversed from a
                counter-clockwise direction to a clock-wise direction and the "horseshoe"
                residence (shown in blue on Figure 1) should be reversed and have the
                driveway face the other direction, OR
           o The third residence is mirrored along its lengthwise axis (as shown in Figure 2)
                so that the residence's driveway would be nearest to the fourth residence rather
                than the second.
        The report should be revised to account for a parking supply based on only two spaces
        per dwelling unit (garage spaces).
        For the 9-lot alternatives, guest parking should be provided along the roadway, the report
        should be updated to include a discussion about parking supply and demand as well as
        City parking requirements, and the report should include a discussion about emergency
        vehicle access and circulation.
        For the 5- and 4-lot alternatives, the report should be updated to include a discussion
        about parking supply and demand as well as City parking requirements.
                       Civil and Transportation Engineering




May 12, 2011


Mr. Kirk McGowan
655 Skyway Road
Suite 230
San Carlos, CA 94070


RE:    Peer review of traffic impact analysis, Finger Avenue subdivision, Redwood City

Dear Kirk:

The following are my responses to the comments presented in a memo dated April 13, 2011,
from Greg Ripa and Robert Eckols of Fehr & Peers to Karli Grigsby at David J. Powers &
Assoc.

PROPOSED 9-LOT SUBDIVISION

Include a discussion about emergency vehicle access and circulation.

The roadways in the proposed subdivision and its alternatives meet the Redwood City Municipal
Code requirement of an unobstructed width of 20 feet. The plans have been reviewed and
approved by the Redwood City Fire Department. I see no need for additional discussion in the
traffic analysis.

Acute angle of third residence on the right side - difficult access.

Using the "P" design vehicle turning template, Exhibit 2-3, as shown in the AASHTO
publication, "A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets," a passenger car can
easily enter the driveway as designed. If the driver wishes to enter only on the right side of the
driveway a small flare of the driveway at the street would solve the problem. There is no need to
reverse the layout of the home on the lot, to reverse the circulation of the street from
counterclockwise to clockwise, or to make the street a 2-way street to accommodate vehicle
access to this one lot.

Parking.

The Redwood City Zoning Code, Article 30.4 , requires single family dwellings of 4 or fewer
bedrooms to have two covered parking spaces and accessory buildings to have one uncovered
space. The peer reviewer suggests to assume that the garages would not be used for vehicle
parking but rather for storage and to alter the report accordingly. In my professional opinion

             837 C olum ba Lane  Foster C ity, C A 94404  (650)212-0837  FAX(650)212-3150
Mr. Kirk McGowan
page 2
May 12, 2011

such a statement is inappropriate and without substantiation. The traffic and parking analysis
has to be based on the facts of the City's legal requirements for the subdivision, the conditions of
the surrounding neighborhood with respect to on-street parking, and the provisions of the
subdivision design to meet the anticipated parking demand. According to the 4th edition of
Parking Generation, ITE  2010, the peak parking demand for the nine lot subdivision is on the
order of 21 vehicles on a weekday. That averages out to 2.2 vehicles per dwelling. To my
knowledge there is little in the way of parking generation data to support the notion that single
family dwellings need more than the typical 2-car garage. In the proposed subdivision each
dwelling has a 2-car garage and a driveway of sufficient length to accommodate two additional
vehicles. Additionally, there are to be five parking spaces provided for visitors along the private
street for a parking potential of 41 vehicles.

9-LOT ALTERNATIVES

Parking.

The parking demand for the 9-lot alternatives would be no different than for the proposed
subdivision except that three of the lots will front onto Finger Avenue directly and the remaining
six lots will be served from a hammerhead cul-de-sac street. The six lots served by the cul-de-
sac street are sufficiently deep that parking for additional vehicles would be no different than for
the proposed subdivision. There is no provision in the Redwood City Zoning Code to provide
visitor parking for single family dwelling units. For multiple dwelling units, condominiums and
townhouses there is a provision in 30.4-A.5. of the code to provide one visitor parking space for
every four dwelling units. Because the plan will cause the loss of three parking spaces on Finger
Avenue the argument could be made to make up for the loss of that parking and to provide three
visitor spaces on the cul-de-sac street. However, because of the configuration of the hammer-
head cul-de-sac, the narrowness of five of the six lots, and the angle of the lot lines at the street,
provision for visitor parking would be problematic at best. It would be better to accommodate
visitor parking for these lots on the driveways of the individual dwellings.

Emergency Vehicle Access.

Emergency vehicles as well as moving vans and service vehicles would have full access to the
lots served by the private hammerhead cul-de-sac street. The hammerhead turnout meets the
dimensional requirements of Attachment P of the City's Engineering Design Criteria for fire
truck turnouts.

5-LOT ALTERNATIVE

The matter of parking supply and demand for the 5-lot alternative is no different than for the
proposed project or the other alternatives. The five lots are sufficiently deep that the buildings
can be set back sufficiently from the street so that the driveways could easily accommodate at
least two visitor vehicles in addition to the two required covered parking spaces for the single
Mr. Kirk McGowan
page 3
May 12, 2011

family dwelling and the one uncovered parking space for the cottage. This alternative would
result in the loss of only one parking space on Finger Avenue. With the maximum on-street
parking demand found to be less than 60% of the supply, there is no justification to require
additional parking for visitors.

4-LOT ALTERNATIVE

The parking supply and demand for this alternative is basically the same as for the 5-lot
alternative except in this alternative there is no loss of on-street parking supply on Finger
Avenue. The lots are sufficiently deep to allow the dwellings to be set back from the street so
that two additional vehicles could be parked on the driveways in addition to the required on-site
parking spaces.

I trust these responses satisfactorily address the peer review comments. If you have any
questions or need further clarification of my responses, please feel free to call me or e-mail me
at rhopper@rkhengineering.com.


Truly yours,

RKH



Richard K. Hopper, P.E., PTOE
Principal
          Civil and Transportation Engineering




                               DRAFT

                    TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS

                    RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION
                        FINGER AVENUE
                   REDWOOD CITY, CALIFORNIA




                           January 26, 2011




                              Prepared for -

                         McGowan Development
                         655 Skyway, Suite 230
                         San Carlos, CA 94070




837 Columba Lane  Foster City, CA 94404  (650)212-0837  FAX(650)212-3150
                                                Table of Contents
Section                                                                                                                           Page

1.   Introduction.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

2.   Existing Conditions.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

3.   Project Conditions.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

4.   Site Access, Circulation and Parking .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

5.   Conclusions and Recommendations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20



Appendices

A.   Traffic Count Data
B.   Levels of Service Calculation Worksheets
C.   Traffic Analysis Worksheets




                                                                    ii
                                                      List of Figures
Figure                                                                                                                                Page

1.    Location Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

2.    Site Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

3.    Intersection Configuration and Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

4.    Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

5.    Project Conditions Peak Hour Traffic Volumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

6.    Loss of Parking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

7.    9-Lot Alternative Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

8.    5-Lot Alternative Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

9.    4-Lot Alternative Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

10.   Mitigation Measures - One Way Street . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21




                                                                      iii
                                                   List of Tables
Table                                                                                                                        Page

A.   Levels of Service Definitions .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7

B.   Intersection Levels of Service - Existing Conditions .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7

C.   TIRE Index Levels. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

D.   Project Vehicle Trip Generation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

E.   Intersection Levels of Service - Project and Alternative Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

F.   Maximum Queue Lengths of Controlled Movements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12




                                                                 iv
INTRODUCTION
SECTION 1.
STUDY PURPOSE

The purpose of this study is to quantify and analyze the traffic and parking impacts of a proposed
residential subdivision on Finger Avenue in Redwood City. See Figure 1, Location Map, page 2.


PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The nine lot subdivision will replace six existing dwelling units on the site. See Figure 2, Site
Plan, page 3.


ANALYSIS METHODOLOGIES

The intersection of El Camino Real & Finger Avenue has been analyzed according to the
methodologies contained in the 2000 edition of the Highway Capacity Manual. The TIRE Index
has been used to evaluate the projected change in traffic on Finger Avenue.


ANALYSIS SCENARIOS

Two scenarios have been developed and analyzed in this study.

1.   Existing Conditions. Current (2011) traffic volumes within the study area.

2.   Project Conditions. (Existing + Project) Project trips are estimated based on the
     proposed land use and are then added to Existing Conditions traffic in order to obtain the
     Project Conditions traffic scenario.


LEVELS OF SERVICE STANDARDS

Caltrans Standards. Caltrans attempts to maintain a LOS standard at the transition between
LOS "C" and "D"2 for State highway facilities. Caltrans does not define LOS standards for
unsignalized intersections.

Redwood City Standards. The City of Redwood City LOS standards for City streets is LOS
"D."

                                                         1


       2
           California Department of Transportation, Guidelines for the Preparation of Traffic Impact Studies .
                                                    El
                                                     C
                                                      am
                                                        in
                                                           o
                                                                Re
                                                                  al
                                                             sio
                                                                 n
                                                                       82
                                                       bd ot
                                                     Su 9-L
                                                         ivi




Base map courtesy Google Maps.  2005-2006 Google


                                                                        LOCATION MAP
                                                         2                  FIGURE 1
EXISTING CONDITIONS
SECTION 2.

ROADWAY NETWORK

State Route 82, El Camino Real. Route 82 in the project study area is a 5-lane, divided
highway running generally north-south. At the study area intersection there is a separate left turn
lane on El Camino Real in the northbound direction with a storage capacity of 100 feet.

Finger Avenue. Finger Avenue is a 2-lane local street running westerly from El Camino Real.

STUDY AREA INTERSECTION

One existing intersection is included within the study area. The intersection is shown on Figure
3, Intersection Configuration and Control, page 5. The existing intersection is controlled by a
STOP sign on the Finger Avenue approach.

EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES

Peak period traffic counts were taken on Friday, January 7, 2011, from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and
Wednesday, January 5, 2011, from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. The peak hour traffic volumes are
shown on Figure 4, page 6. A 24-hour directional count was taken on Finger Avenue west of El
Camino Real on Jaunary 4, 2011. The weekday volume was found to be 305 vehicles eastbound
and 670 vehicles westbound for a total of 975 vehicles. See Appendix A for traffic count data.

LEVELS OF SERVICE DEFINED

LOS (Levels of Service) methodologies are described in Section 1. Levels of Service define how
well or how poorly a traffic facility ( a street or an intersection) is operating. There are by
definition six Levels of Service. These definitions are presented in Table A on page 7.

For unsignalized (2-way STOP control) intersections, the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual
methodology for unsignalized intersections has been utilized. With this methodology, operations
are defined by the average control delay per vehicle (measured in seconds) for each controlled
movement. This incorporates delay associated with deceleration, acceleration, stopping, and
moving up in the queue. For side street STOP-controlled intersections the delay is typically
represented for each movement from the minor approaches only.




                                                 4
            El
               C
                am
                  in
                     o
                     Re
                       al
   STO
2-
  W
        P
   AY




                                 1
  1




                                               82




                             INTERSECTION CONFIGURATION
                                            AND CONTROL
                         5                      FIGURE 3
                                    El
                                       C
                                        am
                                          in
                                             o
                                               Re
                   10




                                                 al
                     87
                     (1 9(1
                       35 5)
                         4)



                                   95 4(6
                                     4
                                     4( 7)
                              )
                                       13
                            11 )
                          4( (10
                                          56
                                          )           1
                           30



                               1




                                                                   82




KEY:
000(000) = AM(PM) Peak Hour                               EXISTING PEAK HOUR
AM Peak Hour 7:45-8:45                                      TRAFFIC VOLUMES
PM Peak Hour 4:45-5:45                           6                   FIGURE 4
                                TABLE A: Levels of Service Definitions
                                for 2-Way STOP Controlled Intersections
 Level of Service                                         Traffic Conditions
          A              Very low delay, less than or equal to10.0 seconds of average control delay per
                         vehicle.
          B              Average control delay in the range of 10.1 to 15.0 seconds per vehicle
          C              Average control delay in the range of 15.1 to 25.0 seconds per vehicle
          D              Average control delay in the range of 25.1 to 35.0 seconds per vehicle
           E             Average control delay in the range of 35.1 to 50.0 seconds per vehicle
           F             Average control delay in excess of 50 seconds per vehicle.
Reference: Highway Capacity Manual , Chapter 17, HCM2000.



EXISTING CONDITIONS LEVELS OF SERVICE

Levels of Service have been calculated for the existing conditions scenario with the results
summarized in Table B below. The intersection operates within the LOS standards. The
calculation worksheets are provided in Appendix B.



           TABLE B: Intersection Levels of Service
                   Existing Conditions
                                                          Existing
                                                         Conditions
                            Controlled         Peak
    Intersection            Movement           Hour      Delay   LOS
                         NB El Camino           AM       11.3     B
  El Camino Real           Real left            PM       13.3     B
   & Finger Ave.                                AM       17.0     C
                           Finger Ave.
                                                PM       87.1     F
Delay is average control delay in seconds per vehicle.
LOS is Level of Service. See Table A for definitions.

The traffic signal at St. Francis Way, 0.14 mile north of Finger Avenue, and the traffic signal
0.29 mile south at Whipple Avenue provide acceptable gaps in the otherwise continuous flow for
traffic to turn onto El Camino Real from Finger Avenue although the time between the gaps may
be lengthy particularly during the evening street peak hour.



                                                         7
TIRE INDEX

A way to determine the impact of a project's traffic on the surrounding street system is by use of
the TIRE (Traffic Infusion on Residential Environment) index.3 This index is based on the idea
that increases in traffic volume have a greater impact on the residential environment on a lower
volume street than along a street with a much higher level of baseline traffic. The TIRE index is a
representation of the effects of traffic on safety, pedestrians, bicyclists, children playing near the
street and the ability to freely maneuver into and out of driveways. A change in the TIRE index
of 0.1 or more would be a noticeable increase in traffic on the street, and, therefore, an impact
upon the residential environment. The five levels of the TIRE index are shown in Table C
below.



                                  TABLE C: TIRE INDEX LEVELS
     TIRE            DAILY TRAFFIC
    INDEX              VOLUME                               RESIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENT
       0                                 1
                                             A cul-de-sac street with one home.
       1                               10
                                             A cul-de-sac street with 2-15 homes.
       2                              100
                                             A 2-lane minor street.
       3                            1000
                                             A 2-lane collector or arterial street.
       4                           10000
                                             A 2 to 6-lane arterial street.
       5                         100000

For a daily volume of 975 vehicles on Finger Avenue the TIRE index is 2.99.




                                                        8

       3
           Goodrich, D.K. and Donald Appleyard, University of California, Berkeley
PROJECT CONDITIONS
SECTION 3.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The project proposes to remove three existing single family, detached houses and three detached
cottages from the site, resubdivide the property, construct a private loop street off of Finger
Avenue, and construct nine single family, detached houses.

In addition to the proposed 9-lot subdivision four other alternatives have been included in this
analysis: a four lot subdivision with four single family detached houses and four detached
cottages, a five lot subdivision with five single family detached houses and five detached
cottages, a nine lot subdivision with nine single family detached houses on a hammerhead cul-de-
sac street located either on the west side of the lot at 54 Finger Avenue or on the east side of 54
Finger Avenue.

PROJECT VEHICLE TRIP GENERATION

The project site is currently occupied. The impacts of project generated traffic are based on the
net change in traffic from the existing to the proposed uses. Estimates of vehicle trip generation
are based on data contained in Trip Generation.4 A detailed trip generation table is provided in
Appendix C. The net change in vehicle trip generation is summarized in Table D below. The
numbers shown in the detailed trip generation table in Appendix C vary from that shown in Table
C below due to the rounding up or down to the nearest whole number

                              TABLE D: Project Vehicle Trip Generation
                                      Net Vehicle Trip Ends

                                              AM Peak Hour                PM Peak Hour
                                                                                             Daily
              Land Use                       In      Out       Total     In   Out   Total   Volume
 Proposed 9-Lot and 9-Lot Alt.               1         2        3        3     1     4        38
 5-Lot Alternative                           1         1        2        2     1     3        32
 4-Lot Alternative                           0         1        1        1     1     2        16




                                                           9


       4
           Institute of Transportation Engineers, 8 th Edition, 2008.
PROJECT VEHICLE TRIP DISTRIBUTION

Project vehicle trips have been distributed on the basis of current travel patterns and traffic
volumes within the project study area. The assumed vehicle trip distribution for the morning
peak hour is 15% north, 85% south on El Camino Real, and 0% west. For the afternoon peak
hour the distribution assumption is 25% north and 75% south on El Camino Real. Daily volume
is distributed 20% north and 80% south on El Camino Real.

PROJECT PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES

The Project Conditions (Existing + Project) peak hour traffic volumes at the study area
intersection is shown on Figure 5, page 11. The "Project" is the 9-lot subdivision and the two 9-
lot alternatives.

PROJECT CONDITIONS LEVELS OF SERVICE

The Project Conditions LOS at the study area intersection is shown in Table D below.
LOS of the controlled movements do not change as a result of project added traffic and the
calculated delays do not increase.



                                          TABLE E: Intersection Levels of Service
                                            Project and Alternative Conditions
                                                          Existing      Project         5-Lot         4-Lot
                                                         Conditions    Conditions    Alternative   Alternative
                         Controlled           Peak
  Intersection           Movement             Hour       Delay   LOS   Delay   LOS   Delay   LOS   Delay   LOS
                           NB El               AM        11.3     B    11.3    B     11.3    B     11.3    B
  El Camino               Camino
                          Real left            PM        13.3     B    13.3    B     13.3    B     13.3    B
    Real &
  Finger Ave.               Finger             AM        17.0     C    16.7    C     16.7    C     16.8    C
                             Ave.              PM        87.1     F    85.2     F    85.2     F    87.6     F
Delay is average control delay in seconds per vehicle.
LOS is Level of Service. See Table A for definitions.


The slight variation in the calculated control delay for the Finger Avenue approach has to do with
the slight variation in critical and conflicting volumes of the four scenarios evaluated. Right-
turning vehicles have less control delay than left-turning vehicles and, thus, can lower the
average control delay of the controlled movement. Suffice it to say the effect on average control
delay for the Finger Avenue approach during the afternoon street peak hour with the project and
alternative project traffic added will not be materially significant. Delay will continue to be
much as it is presently.


                                                                 10
                                    El
                                       C
                                        am
                                          in
                                             o
                                               Re
                   10




                                                 al
                     87
                     (1 9(1
                       35 6)
                         4)



                                   95 5(6
                                     4
                                     4( 9)
                              )
                                       13
                            11 )
                          4( (11
                                          56
                                          )                 1
                           32



                               1




                                                                          82




KEY:
000(000) = AM(PM) Peak Hour                           PROJECT CONDITIONS PEAK HOUR
AM Peak Hour 7:45-8:45                                            TRAFFIC VOLUMES
PM Peak Hour 4:45-5:45                           11                        FIGURE 5
PROJECT EFFECTS ON QUEUE LENGTHS

Queue lengths on the controlled movements at the intersection has been calculated to determine
the effects of project added traffic.5 The results are shown in Table F below. Queue lengths are
based on an average of 25 feet per vehicle. The storage length of the left turn lane on northbound
El Camino Real is 100 feet as shown on Figure 3, page 5. There are no separate turn lanes on the
Finger Avenue approach. That street is 30 feet wide, curb-to-curb so there is insufficient width
to provide separate lanes for left and right turn movements on the approach to El Camino Real.

                                 TABLE F: Maximum Queue Length
                                    of Controlled Movements
                                               Controlled             Peak
             Intersection                      Movement               Hour         Existing       Project
                                             NB El Camino              AM             75'            75'
                                               Real left               PM            100'           100'
   El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
                                                                       AM             75'           100'
                                               Finger Ave.
                                                                       PM            125'           125'

The calculated queue lengths do not exceed the storage length of the left turn lane under existing
or project (9-lot) conditions. For the 4-lot and 5-lot alternatives the queue lengths on the left turn
lane will less than that of the project or 9-lot alternatives.

FINGER AVENUE

The weekday daily traffic volume on Finger Avenue is 975 vehicles That volume equates to an
index of 2.99. The net effect of the project is to add a calculated 38 vehicles per day to the traffic
on Finger Avenue for a new daily volume of 1,013. The TIRE index for the new daily volume is
3.01, and, therefore, the effect will not be noticeable. For the 4-lot and 5-lot alternatives the
TIRE index would be 3.00.




                                                     12


        5
         Gard, John T., Estimation of Maximum Queue Lengths at Unsignalized Intersections, ITE Journal,
November 2001
SITE ACCESS, CIRCULATION AND PARKING
SECTION 4.

SITE ACCESS

The proposed subdivision includes a horseshoe, one-way street off of Finger Avenue. It is
assumed that the circular street will operate in a counter clockwise manner with the entrance
closest to El Camino Real and the exit furthest from El Camino Real. Corner sight distance is
only important at the intersection where traffic will enter onto Finger Avenue. Parking for a
distance of approximately 20 feet on either side of the exiting intersection on Finger Avenue
should be prohibited.

CIRCULATION

Because it is to be a one-way street, there will need to be traffic signing and markings to direct
traffic to the proper entrance to the subdivision. The street will vary in width from 16 to 18 feet
on the straight portions and 21 feet on the curves. A sidewalk is to be provided on one side of
the street. At the intersections with Finger Avenue the curb return radii vary from 22 to 26 feet.
The sharp curves will help to restrict traffic speed on the private street. The homeowners
association can set the speed limit to whatever they deem appropriate. The street geometry could
support a speed limit of 15 mph with a corner sight distance around the curves on the order of 75
feet. One-way streets are safer than two-way streets insofar as eliminating head-on or sideswipe
collisions. On narrow residential streets this can be a significant safety factor. For the homes on
lots 7 and 8, the closest to Finger Avenue, there could be a desire of residents and guests to
"short circuit" the one-way traffic movement on the street and drive counter-flow. Because of
the very low volume of traffic expected to be generated these and the other homes in the
subdivision, the likelihood of head-on collisions occurring due to wrong-way drivers is extremely
low.

Finger Avenue is 30 feet wide, curb-to-curb. With parking taking up 14-16 feet of that width,
that leaves only 14-16 feet of width for 2-way traffic flow to occur. Because the circular street
will create two new intersections on Finger Avenue, the new intersections will open areas on the
street that will help to facilitate 2-way traffic flow on Finger Avenue, particularly for the larger
service and delivery vehicles. That improvement in 2-way traffic flow on this narrow street can
only improve the overall safety of traffic, reducing the potential for sideswipe and head-on
collisions.

PARKING

Each detached single family residential unit in the project will have a 2-car garage and a
driveway apron capable of parking at least two additional automobile size vehicles. There will
also be five uncovered parking spaces for visitors placed throughout the site for a total parking
availability of 41 parking spaces. The Redwood City Zoning Code requires only two covered
spaces per dwelling for dwellings with four or fewer bedrooms (30.4 A.1.) The weekday peak
                                                 13
period parking demand for single family detached housing according to the Institute of
Transportation Engineers' publication, Parking Generation, 3rd Edition,  2004, is 2.24 parking
spaces per dwelling unit for a total demand of 21 spaces. The project will have 20 more spaces
than the projected peak demand indicated by the ITE publication. Because the new subdivision
street will require the removal of a number of parking spaces on Finger Avenue, a parking
occupancy survey was conducted on that street.

Parking occupancy counts were taken on Finger Avenue between El Camino Real and Hyde
Street on Wednesday, January 5, 2011, and Sunday, January 9, 2011, at three separate times
throughout the two count days starting at 6:00 a.m. and ending at 8:00 p.m. Each parking area
between driveways was measured and numbered. There are no marked parking spaces on the
street. The estimate of parking capacity is based on the assumption that a vehicle confined at
only one end will take 18 feet and a vehicle that is confined at both ends will take 22 feet of
space. Those are typical dimensions of marked parking spaces. In that one block section of
Finger Avenue there is space to park 32 vehicles. The survey found that the maximum parking
occupancy on Wednesday was 18 vehicles (56%) at 8:00 p.m. and the maximum occupancy on
Sunday was 15 vehicles at 6:00 a.m. (45%). Details of the parking survey are provided in
Appendix C.

The effect of the project on parking availability on Finger Avenue will be to reduce the number
of spaces by six spaces from 32 to 26. See Figure 6, Loss of Parking, page 15. Twenty-six
parking spaces is still eight spaces above the maximum parking occupancy found in the 2-day
survey. Some of the existing dwellings on Finger Avenue that will be removed to make way for
the project use that street to park on. On-street parking demand from those dwellings will be
eliminated so that the reduction in available on-street parking spaces will be offset by the
reduction in demand for on-street parking on Finger Avenue.

ALTERNATIVE PLANS

9-Lot Alternative. An alternative to the proposed subdivision is a 9-lot plan that maintains three
residential lots on Finger Avenue while providing six additional lots served by a single hammer-
head cul-de-sac off of Finger Avenue. See 9-Lot Alternative Plan, Figure 7, page 16. The cul-
de-sac street intersection with Finger Avenue will require the removal of three parking spaces on
Finger Avenue. The plan does not show any parking for guests in within the subdivision. It is
assumed that guest parking will be on the driveways of the individual homes. Parking demand
on Finger Avenue will be the same or slightly higher than at present as there will be three lots
fronting the street where there are now only two existing lots fronting on Finger Avenue.

An alternative to the 9-lot plan is to locate the cul-de-sac street on what is designated as Lot 6 on
Figure 7. The result will be essentially the same with three lots served directly off of Finger
Avenue and six lots served from the private street. Three parking spaces will be lost on Finger
Avenue to accommodate the new street intersection. The only advantage of this alternative is
that it places the new street intersection closer to El Camino Real.

With either configuration of the 9-lot alternative the hammer-head cul-de-sac will make
circulation by delivery and service vehicles more difficult than for the circular street proposed by
                                                 14
the project. Trucks will have to make a backing maneuver in order to turn around and exit the
site. Backing maneuvers are always more prone to collisions with other vehicles or fixed objects
than maneuvers proceeding straight ahead. The hammer-head configuration will also concentrate
vehicular traffic for the six lots in a much smaller area raising the potential for congestion and
collisions. While consuming a smaller area than the circular street, the hammer-head cul-de-sac
overall is a less safe alternative to that proposed by the project.

5-Lot Alternative. This alternative would divide the site into five lots all served from Finger
Avenue. No private street would be needed to serve the five lots. See 5-Lot Alternative Plan,
Figure 8, page 18. While increasing the number of lots served off of the street the loss in street
parking would amount to only one space. The lots are large enough that on-site parking for
residents and guests could be provided.

Service, delivery, and public safety vehicles would have to stay on Finger Avenue to service the
five individual lots. That could add to traffic congestion on the street that is only 30 feet wide,
curb-to-curb.

4-Lot Alternative. A 4-lot alternative would essentially be the same as the 5-lot alternative but
with one less lot. See 4-Lot Alternative Plan, Figure 9, page 19. Only one new driveway would
need to be constructed. Three of the four lots already have driveways in place. Depending on the
location of the new driveway there may be no loss of on-street parking on Finger Avenue. As
with the 5-lot alternative service, delivery, and public safety vehicles would have to stay on
Finger Avenue to service the five individual lots adding to traffic congestion on the street.




                                                 17
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
SECTION 5.

CONCLUSIONS

The net increase in traffic generated by the proposed residential subdivision on Finger Avenue
will not have a significant effect on peak hour levels of service at the El Camino Real & Finger
Avenue intersection and there should not be a noticeable change in traffic on Finger Avenue
itself in the block between El Camino Real and Hyde Street. The project's effect on parking on
Finger Avenue will also be neutral.


RECOMMENDATIONS

On-Site:

     Place traffic signs and pavement legends on the private street as shown on Figure 10,
     Mitigation Measures - One Way Street, page 21.

Off-site:

     None.




Richard K. Hopper, P.E., PTOE
Principal




                                               20
                APPENDICES
           A. Traffic Count Data
B. Levels of Service Calculation Worksheets
      C. Traffic Analysis Worksheets
A. Traffic Count Worksheets
                                                                    Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                   P.O. Box 4205
                                                                               San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                             Traffic Data You Can Count On
Intersection: El Camino Real And Finger Ave                                                                        File Name       : El Camino and Finger AM raw data
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                              Site Code       : 00000000
Project: Redwood City                                                                                              Start Date      : 1/7/2011
                                                                                                                   Page No         :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                  EL CAMINO                                            FINGER                  EL CAMINO                                                 FINGER
                      From North                                          From East                 From South                                              From West
Start Time      Right   Thru            Left        App. Total      Right   Thru   Left    App. Total   Right        Thru   Left   App. Total    Right         Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   07:00 AM         2    117              0                   119       0      0     0             0        0         106     3         109          3            0            0            3        231
   07:15 AM         2    215              1                   218       0      0     1             1        0         145     2         147          6            0            1            7        373
   07:30 AM         2    225              0                   227       0      0     0             0        0         199     7         206          6            0            0            6        439
   07:45 AM         2    260              0                   262       0      0     0             0        0         242    11         253          6            0            0            6        521
        Total       8    817              1                   826       0      0     1             1        0         692    23         715         21            0            1           22       1564

   08:00 AM        3     262              0                   265      0       0     0             0           0     258     23         281             9            0         2           11        557
   08:15 AM        0     268              0                   268      0       0     0             0           0     244      7         251            14            0         2           16        535
   08:30 AM        4     297              0                   301      0       0     0             0           1     210      3         214             1            0         0            1        516
   08:45 AM        2     220              0                   222      0       0     0             0           0     205      6         211             8            0         1            9        442
        Total      9    1047              0                  1056      0       0     0             0           1     917     39         957            32            0         5           37       2050

 Grand Total       17   1864              1                  1882      0       0     1             1        1       1609     62       1672           53              0          6          59       3614
   Apprch %       0.9      99           0.1                            0       0   100                    0.1        96.2   3.7                    89.8              0       10.2
     Total %      0.5    51.6             0                  52.1      0       0     0             0        0        44.5   1.7        46.3         1.5              0        0.2         1.6


                                                                                      EL CAMINO
                                                                                     Out      In          Total
                                                                                     1615    1882          3497


                                                                                            17 1864            1
                                                                                         Right Thru     Left
                              138
                             Total




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                               6




                                                                                                                                                Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                               FINGER
                                                    Left




                                                                                                North
                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                   59


                                                         0
                                               Right Thru
                                 In




                                                                                     1/7/2011 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                                     1/7/2011 08:45 AM
                          FINGER




                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                  53




                                                                                                                                                Left
                            79




                                                                                     Unshifted
                          Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                     1


                                                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                            62 1609     1


                                                                                     1918    1672          3590
                                                                                     Out      In          Total
                                                                                      EL CAMINO
                                                       Traffic Research Associates
                                                                   P.O. Box 4205
                                                               San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                            Traffic Data You Can Count On
Intersection: El Camino Real And Finger Ave                                                         File Name        : El Camino and Finger AM raw data
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                               Site Code        : 00000000
Project: Redwood City                                                                               Start Date       : 1/7/2011
                                                                                                    Page No          :2


                   EL CAMINO                            FINGER                                EL CAMINO                                    FINGER
                       From North                          From East                              From South                                  From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right Thru     Left      App. Total   Right     Thru   Left    App. Total    Right         Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
     07:45 AM           2     260        0        262     0    0        0              0        0     242      11         253               6       0            0            6         521
     08:00 AM           3     262        0        265     0    0        0              0        0     258      23         281               9       0            2           11         557
     08:15 AM           0     268        0        268     0    0        0              0        0      244       7        251             14        0             2          16        535
     08:30 AM           4     297        0        301     0    0        0              0        1      210       3        214           1           0             0           1        516
 Total Volume           9 1087           0      1096      0    0        0              0        1      954      44        999          30           0             4          34       2129
  % App. Total        0.8    99.2        0                0    0        0                     0.1     95.5     4.4                   88.2           0          11.8
           PHF      .563     .915    .000        .910  .000 .000     .000          .000     .250      .924   .478        .889        .536        .000          .500       .531         .956

                                                                         EL CAMINO
                                                                        Out      In           Total
                                                                         958    1096           2054


                                                                                9 1087          0
                                                                            Right Thru      Left




                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                 87
                              Total




                                                                                                                                                Out
                                             4




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                 FINGER
                                         Left




                                                                                    North
                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                      0
                                    34


                                                   0
                                         Right Thru
                                  In




                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM                                                         In
                           FINGER




                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                           0


                                                                   Unshifted
                                            30




                                                                                                                                  Left
                             53
                           Out




                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                            Left Thru Right
                                                                              44  954     1


                                                                        1117     999           2116
                                                                        Out     In            Total
                                                                         EL CAMINO
                                                                    Traffic Research Associates
                                                                                   P.O. Box 4205
                                                                               San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                                             Traffic Data You Can Count On
Intersection: El Camino Real and Finger                                                                            File Name       : El Camino and Finger pm raw data
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                              Site Code       : 00000000
Project: Redwood City                                                                                              Start Date      : 1/5/2011
                                                                                                                   Page No         :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        EL CAMINO                                      FINGER                  EL CAMINO                                                 FINGER
                        From North                                        From East                 From South                                              From West
Start Time      Right   Thru            Left        App. Total      Right   Thru   Left    App. Total   Right       Thru    Left   App. Total    Right         Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
   04:00 PM         5    300              0                   305       0      0     0             0        0        325      8        333           4            0            3            7        645
   04:15 PM         9    293              0                   302       1      0     0             1        0        324      9        333           5            0            3            8        644
   04:30 PM         3    309              0                   312       0      0     0             0        1        330     13        344           4            0            0            4        660
   04:45 PM         4    278              0                   282       1      0     0             1        0        350     12        362           3            0            3            6        651
        Total      21   1180              0                  1201       2      0     0             2        1       1329     42       1372          16            0            9           25       2600

   05:00 PM        4     355              1                   360      0       0     0             0           1     335     11        347              2            0         2            4        711
   05:15 PM        2     333              0                   335      0       0     0             0           0     351     15        366              2            0         2            4        705
   05:30 PM        2     336              0                   338      0       0     0             0           0     347     15        362              2            0         2            4        704
   05:45 PM        7     330              0                   337      1       0     0             1           1     323     26        350              4            0         5            9        697
        Total     15    1354              1                  1370      1       0     0             1           2    1356     67       1425             10            0        11           21       2817

 Grand Total       36   2534              1                  2571       3      0     0             3        3       2685    109       2797           26              0         20          46       5417
   Apprch %       1.4    98.6             0                          100       0     0                    0.1          96    3.9                   56.5              0       43.5
     Total %      0.7    46.8             0                  47.5     0.1      0     0           0.1      0.1        49.6      2       51.6         0.5              0        0.4         0.8


                                                                                            EL CAMINO
                                                                                     Out         In   Total
                                                                                     2708       2571   5279


                                                                                            36 2534            1
                                                                                         Right Thru     Left
                              191
                             Total




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                 20




                                                                                                                                                Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                               FINGER
                                               Left




                                                                                                North
                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                    3
                                   46


                                                         0
                                               Right Thru
                                 In




                                                                                     1/5/2011 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                                     1/5/2011 05:45 PM
                          FINGER




                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                  26




                                                                                                                                                Left
                           145




                                                                                     Unshifted
                          Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                     0


                                                                                                                                                                  7




                                                                                          Left Thru Right
                                                                                           109 2685     3


                                                                                     2560    2797          5357
                                                                                     Out      In          Total
                                                                                      EL CAMINO
                                                         Traffic Research Associates
                                                                     P.O. Box 4205
                                                                 San Leandro, CA 94579
                                                               Traffic Data You Can Count On
Intersection: El Camino Real and Finger                                                               File Name         : El Camino and Finger pm raw data
Engineering Firm: RKH                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
Project: Redwood City                                                                                 Start Date        : 1/5/2011
                                                                                                      Page No           :2


                          EL CAMINO                       FINGER                                EL CAMINO                                     FINGER
                          From North                         From East                              From South                                   From West
    Start Time Right Thru             Left App. Total Right   Thru     Left      App. Total   Right     Thru    Left    App. Total    Right         Thru          Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
     05:00 PM           4     355        1        360     0      0        0              0        1      335      11         347               2       0             2           4         711
     05:15 PM           2     333        0        335     0      0        0              0        0      351      15         366               2       0             2           4        705
     05:30 PM           2     336        0        338     0      0        0              0        0       347     15        362                2       0             2           4        704
     05:45 PM           7     330        0        337     1      0        0               1       1       323     26        350                4       0             5            9       697
 Total Volume          15 1354           1      1370      1      0        0              1        2     1356       67      1425           10           0            11          21       2817
  % App. Total        1.1    98.8      0.1              100      0        0                     0.1      95.2     4.7                   47.6           0          52.4
           PHF      .536     .954    .250        .951  .250   .000     .000          .250     .500       .966   .644        .973        .625        .000          .550       .583         .991

                                                                                  EL CAMINO
                                                                          Out          In   Total
                                                                          1368        1370   2738


                                                                                 15 1354          1
                                                                              Right Thru      Left




                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                                 103
                                Total




                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                             11




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                    FINGER
                                           Left




                                                                                      North
                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                         1
                                      21


                                                     0
                                           Right Thru
                                    In




                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM                                                          In
                             FINGER




                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                              1


                                                                     Unshifted
                                              10




                                                                                                                                     Left
                               82
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                              Left Thru Right
                                                                                67 1356     2


                                                                          1364    1425           2789
                                                                          Out      In           Total
                                                                           EL CAMINO
                                                             MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                        Page 1
                                                                    mietekm@comcast.net
CITY OF REDWOOD CITY                                                    916.806.0250
FINGER AV. - EL CAMINO REAL to HYDE ST.




                                                                                                                                 Site Code: 1
                                                                                                                                       finger


 Start       04-Jan-11             EB               Hour Totals                            WB               Hour Totals        Both Dir. Total
 Time           Tue        A.M.           P.M.   A.M.        P.M.                  A.M.           P.M.   A.M.        P.M.     A.M.         P.M.
    12:00                    0              1                                        0              9                           0               10
    12:15                    0              4                                        0             14                           0               18
    12:30                    0              7                                        0             17                           0               24
    12:45                    1              9      1          21                     1             11      1          51        2               20
    01:00                    0              6                                        1              3                           1                9
    01:15                    0              6                                        0             10                           0               16
    01:30                    0              4                                        0             10                           0               14
    01:45                    0              7      0          23                     0              9      1          32        0               16
    02:00                    0              5                                        0              5                           0               10
    02:15                    0              5                                        1             13                           1               18
    02:30                    0              8                                        0             16                           0               24
    02:45                    0             10      0          28                     0             16      1          50        0               26
    03:00                    0               4                                       0              4                           0                8
    03:15                    0               4                                       0             16                           0               20
    03:30                    0             12                                        0              4                           0               16
    03:45                    0              6      0          26                     1             12      1          36        1               18
    04:00                    1              4                                        0             15                           1               19
    04:15                    0              4                                        1             18                           1               22
    04:30                    0              4                                        0             16                           0               20
    04:45                    1              2      2          14                     1             21      2          70        2               23
    05:00                    0              6                                        0             22                           0               28
    05:15                    0              5                                        0             26                           0               31
    05:30                    2              4                                        4             18                           6               22
    05:45                    0              8      2          23                     0             17      4          83        0               25
    06:00                    1             10                                        0             18                           1               28
    06:15                    2              2                                        0             19                           2               21
    06:30                    0              5                                        5             23                           5               28
    06:45                    4              4      7          21                     3             13      8          73        7               17
    07:00                    3              9                                        3              9                           6               18
    07:15                    4              4                                         4            11                           8               15
    07:30                    3              5                                         7            10                          10               15
    07:45                    8              9     18          27                    16              9     30          39       24               18
    08:00                    7              4                                       23              6                          30               10
    08:15                   14              2                                        3              8                          17               10
    08:30                    0              2                                        7             14                           7               16
    08:45                    5              2     26          10                     9              4     42          32       14                6
    09:00                    5              0                                        7              4                          12                4
    09:15                    3              1                                        2              5                           5                6
    09:30                    8              3                                        4              6                          12                9
    09:45                    7              1     23           5                     8              5     21          20       15                6
    10:00                    1              0                                        8              3                           9                3
    10:15                    5              2                                        6              3                          11                5
    10:30                    1              1                                        6              5                           7                6
    10:45                    2              0      9           3                     4              2     24          13        6                2
    11:00                    3              0                                        5              2                           8                2
    11:15                    4              0                                        9              1                          13                1
    11:30                    4              0                                       12              2                          16                2
    11:45                    4              0     15           0                     6              0     32           5       10                0
    Total                  103            201                                      167            504                         270              705
 Day Total                        304                                                     671                                      975

 Percent                 33.9%          66.1%                                   24.9%           75.1%                       27.7%         72.3%

    Peak                 07:30          02:45                                    07:15          04:45                       07:30          05:00
     Vol.                   32             30                                       50             87                          81            106
   P.H.F.                0.571          0.625                                    0.543          0.837                       0.675          0.855
B. Levels of Service Calculation Worksheets
Existing AMPH                Fri Jan 14, 2011 15:02:45                   Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             FINGER AVENUE SUBDIVISION
                                EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):        0.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: C[ 17.0]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           El Camino Real                       Finger Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include          Include           Include
Lanes:         1 0 2 0 0         0 0 2 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 7 Jan 2011 << 7:45-8:45 AM
Base Vol:       44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     30     0    0      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     30     0    0     0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:     46 998       0      0 1137     9     4    0     31     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume:    46 998       0      0 1137     9     4    0     31     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       6.8 6.5     6.9 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 1146 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1733 2232         384 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 617 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         81   43    620 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:     617 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       76   40    620 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.07 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.06 0.00 0.05 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:     0.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 11.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *      *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 337 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.4 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 17.0 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      *    *     *     *    C      *     *    *      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx             17.0            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                C                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Existing PMPH                Wed Jan 19, 2011 15:53:23                   Page 3-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             FINGER AVENUE SUBDIVISION
                                EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
             2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Base Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):        1.0        Worst Case Level Of Service: F[ 87.1]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           El Camino Real                       Finger Ave.
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:        Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include            Include          Include           Include
Lanes:         1 0 2 0 0         0 0 2 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Jan 2011 << 5:00-6:00 PM
Base Vol:       67 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0      0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    67 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
User Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:      0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:     68 1368      0      0 1366    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume:    68 1368      0      0 1366    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       6.8 6.5     6.9 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx       3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 1381 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 2193 2877         463 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 502 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx         40   17    551 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:     502 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       35   14    551 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.13 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.31 0.00 0.02 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:     0.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *      *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:      LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx        64 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 1.2 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 87.1 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *      *      *    *     *     *    F      *     *    *      *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx             xxxxxx             87.1            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                  *                F                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************




  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AMPH               Fri Jan 14, 2011 15:32:48                   Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            FINGER AVENUE SUBDIVISION
                               PROJECT CONDITIONS
                               AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: C[ 16.7]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           El Camino Real                      Finger Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 2 0 0         0 0 2 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 7 Jan 2011 << 7:45-8:45 AM
Base Vol:      44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     30     0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     30     0    0     0
Added Vol:       1    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      2     0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   45 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     32     0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:    47 998       0      0 1137     9     4    0     33     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume:   47 998       0      0 1137     9     4    0     33     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.8 6.5     6.9 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 1146 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1735 2234        384 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 617 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        80   43    620 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    617 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       76   40    620 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.08 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.06 0.00 0.05 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 11.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 345 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.4 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 16.7 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    C      *     *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             16.7            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                C                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project PMPH                Wed Jan 19, 2011 15:54:16                   Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            FINGER AVENUE SUBDIVISION
                               PROJECT CONDITIONS
                               PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       1.0        Worst Case Level Of Service: F[ 85.2]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           El Camino Real                      Finger Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 2 0 0         0 0 2 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Jan 2011 << 5:00-6:00 PM
Base Vol:      67 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   67 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
Added Vol:       2    0     0      0    0     1     0    0      1     0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   69 1356      0      0 1354    16    11    0     11     0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:    70 1368      0      0 1366    16    11    0     11     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume:   70 1368      0      0 1366    16    11    0     11     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.8 6.5     6.9 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 1382 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 2198 2882        464 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 502 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        39   17    551 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    502 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       35   14    551 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.14 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.32 0.00 0.02 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx       66 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 1.2 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 85.2 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    F      *     *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             85.2            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                F                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AMPH               Fri Jan 14, 2011 15:16:42                   Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            FINGER AVENUE SUBDIVISION
                     PROJECT CONDITIONS - 5-LOT ALTERNATIVE
                               AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: C[ 16.7]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           El Camino Real                      Finger Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 2 0 0         0 0 2 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 7 Jan 2011 << 7:45-8:45 AM
Base Vol:      44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     30     0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     30     0    0     0
Added Vol:       0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      2     0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     32     0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:    46 998       0      0 1137     9     4    0     33     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume:   46 998       0      0 1137     9     4    0     33     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.8 6.5     6.9 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 1146 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1733 2232        384 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 617 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        81   43    620 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    617 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       76   40    620 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.07 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.06 0.00 0.05 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 11.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 345 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.4 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 16.7 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    C      *     *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             16.7            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                C                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project PMPH                Wed Jan 19, 2011 16:00:01                   Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            FINGER AVENUE SUBDIVISION
                     PROJECT CONDITIONS - 5-LOT ALTERNATIVE
                               PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       1.0        Worst Case Level Of Service: F[ 85.2]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           El Camino Real                      Finger Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 2 0 0         0 0 2 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Jan 2011 << 5:00-6:00 PM
Base Vol:      67 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   67 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
Added Vol:       2    0     0      0    0     1     0    0      1     0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   69 1356      0      0 1354    16    11    0     11     0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:    70 1368      0      0 1366    16    11    0     11     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume:   70 1368      0      0 1366    16    11    0     11     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.8 6.5     6.9 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 1382 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 2198 2882        464 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 502 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        39   17    551 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    502 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       35   14    551 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.14 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.32 0.00 0.02 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx       66 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 1.2 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 85.2 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    F      *     *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             85.2            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                F                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project AMPH               Wed Jan 19, 2011 15:46:54                   Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            FINGER AVENUE SUBDIVISION
                     PROJECT CONDITIONS - 4-LOT ALTERNATIVE
                               AM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       0.5        Worst Case Level Of Service: C[ 16.8]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           El Camino Real                      Finger Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 2 0 0         0 0 2 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 7 Jan 2011 << 7:45-8:45 AM
Base Vol:      44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     30     0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     30     0    0     0
Added Vol:       0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      1     0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   44 954       0      0 1087     9     4    0     31     0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96 0.96
PHF Volume:    46 998       0      0 1137     9     4    0     32     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume:   46 998       0      0 1137     9     4    0     32     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.8 6.5     6.9 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 1146 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 1733 2232        384 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 617 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        81   43    620 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    617 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       76   40    620 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.07 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.06 0.00 0.05 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 11.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx 341 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 0.4 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 16.8 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    C      *     *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             16.8            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                C                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
Project PMPH                Wed Jan 19, 2011 15:47:25                   Page 6-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            FINGER AVENUE SUBDIVISION
                     PROJECT CONDITIONS - 4-LOT ALTERNATIVE
                               PM STREET PEAK HOUR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Level Of Service Computation Report
           2000 HCM Unsignalized Method (Future Volume Alternative)
********************************************************************************
Intersection #1 El Camino Real & Finger Ave.
********************************************************************************
Average Delay (sec/veh):       1.0        Worst Case Level Of Service: F[ 87.6]
********************************************************************************
Street Name:           El Camino Real                      Finger Ave.
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound        East Bound        West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R         L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Control:       Uncontrolled      Uncontrolled       Stop Sign         Stop Sign
Rights:            Include           Include          Include           Include
Lanes:        1 0 2 0 0         0 0 2 1 0         0 0 1! 0 0        0 0 0 0 0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 5 Jan 2011 << 5:00-6:00 PM
Base Vol:      67 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:   67 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
Added Vol:       1    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
PasserByVol:     0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
Initial Fut:   68 1356      0      0 1354    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99 0.99
PHF Volume:    69 1368      0      0 1366    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
Reduct Vol:      0    0     0      0    0     0     0    0      0     0    0     0
FinalVolume:   69 1368      0      0 1366    15    11    0     10     0    0     0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Critical Gap Module:
Critical Gp: 4.1 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      6.8 6.5     6.9 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
FollowUpTim: 2.2 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx      3.5 4.0     3.3 xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Module:
Cnflict Vol: 1381 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 2195 2879        463 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Potent Cap.: 502 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx        39   17    551 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Move Cap.:    502 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx       35   14    551 xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Volume/Cap: 0.14 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 0.31 0.00 0.02 xxxx xxxx xxxx
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Level Of Service Module:
2Way95thQ:    0.5 xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
Control Del: 13.3 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
LOS by Move:     B    *     *      *    *     *     *    *      *     *    *     *
Movement:     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT     LT - LTR - RT
Shared Cap.: xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx       64 xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx
SharedQueue:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 1.2 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shrd ConDel:xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 87.6 xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx
Shared LOS:      *    *     *      *    *     *     *    F      *     *    *     *
ApproachDel:     xxxxxx            xxxxxx             87.6            xxxxxx
ApproachLOS:          *                 *                F                 *
********************************************************************************
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.
********************************************************************************

  Traffix 8.0.0715 (c) 2008 Dowling Assoc. Licensed to RKH ENGR., FOSTER CITY
C. Traffic Analysis Worksheets
                                                                       FINGER AVENUE
                                                                  VEHICLE TRIP GENERATION
                                                                          1/14/2011
PROJECT & 9-LOT ALT.                                              TRIP GENERATION RATE                                 TRIP GENERATION VOLUME
                                                       A.M. PEAK HOUR         P.M. PEAK HOUR                  A.M. PEAK HOUR      P.M. PEAK HOUR
        LAND USE            LU CODE SIZE UNITS       IN      OUT    TOTAL    IN     OUT TOTAL DAILY          IN     OUT TOTAL    IN     OUT TOTAL DAILY
PROPOSED
Single Family Residential      210       9      DU   0.19   0.56   0.75   0.64   0.37    1.01    9.57           2       5       7       6         3   9   86
EXISTING
Single Family Residential      210       3      DU   0.19   0.56   0.75   0.64   0.37    1.01    9.57          0       2        2        2        1   3   29
Lo-Rise Apartment              221       3      DU   0.10   0.36   0.46   0.38   0.20    0.58    6.59          0       1        1        1        1   2   20
                                                                                         Total Existing:       0       3        4        3        2   5   48
NET NEW TRAFFIC                                                                                                1       2        3        3        2   4   38
                                                                                                           Numbers may not add due to rounding.


5-LOT ALTERNATIVE                                                 TRIP GENERATION RATE                                 TRIP GENERATION VOLUME
                                                       A.M. PEAK HOUR        P.M. PEAK HOUR                   A.M. PEAK HOUR      P.M. PEAK HOUR
        LAND USE            LU CODE SIZE UNITS       IN      OUT    TOTAL   IN     OUT TOTAL DAILY           IN     OUT TOTAL    IN     OUT TOTAL DAILY
PROPOSED
Single Family Residential      210       5      DU   0.19   0.56   0.75   0.64   0.37    1.01     9.57          1       3       4       3         2   5   48
Lo-Rise Apartment              221       5      DU   0.10   0.36   0.46   0.38   0.20    0.58     6.59          0       2       2       2         1   3   33
                                                                                        Total Proposed:         1       5       6       5         3   8   81
EXISTING
Single
   g Familyy Residential       210       3      DU   0.19   0.56   0.75   0.64   0.37    1.01    9.57          0       2        2        2        1   3   29
Lo-Rise Apartment              221       3      DU   0.10   0.36   0.46   0.38   0.20    0.58    6.59          0       1        1        1        1   2   20
                                                                                         Total Existing:       0       3        4        3        2   5   48
NET NEW TRAFFIC                                                                                                1       2        2        2        1   3   32
                                                                                                           Numbers may not add due to rounding.


4-LOT ALTERNATIVE                                                 TRIP GENERATION RATE                                 TRIP GENERATION VOLUME
                                                       A.M. PEAK HOUR        P.M. PEAK HOUR                   A.M. PEAK HOUR      P.M. PEAK HOUR
        LAND USE            LU CODE SIZE UNITS       IN      OUT    TOTAL   IN     OUT TOTAL DAILY           IN     OUT TOTAL    IN     OUT TOTAL DAILY
PROPOSED
Single Family Residential      210       4      DU   0.19   0.56   0.75   0.64   0.37    1.01     9.57          1       2       3       3         1   4   38
Lo-Rise Apartment              221       4      DU   0.10   0.36   0.46   0.38   0.20    0.58     6.59          0       1       2       2         1   2   26
                                                                                        Total Proposed:         1       4       5       4         2   6   65
EXISTING
Single Family Residential      210       3      DU   0.19   0.56   0.75   0.64   0.37    1.01    9.57          0       2        2        2        1   3   29
Lo-Rise Apartment              221       3      DU   0.10   0.36   0.46   0.38   0.20    0.58    6.59          0       1        1        1        1   2   20
                                                                                         Total Existing:       0       3        4        3        2   5   48
NET NEW TRAFFIC                                                                                                1       1        1        1        1   2   16
                                                                                                           Numbers may not add due to rounding.
           01/14/2011       RKH
Sources: ITE, Trip Generation, 8th Edition,  2008
   INTERSECTION: El Camino Real & Finger Avenue                                                                         BY:     RKH
   AGENCY:          Redwood City                                                                                        DATE:   1/19/2011
   HOUR ANALYZED:             AM Peak Hour
   YEAR:    2011                            SCENARIO: Existing Conditions



                    TRAFFIC DATA:
                                                         PHF:       1.00
            RT TURN FLARE?              N                  R       T         L
            RT TURN ISLAND?             N                   0      0         0      LANES
                                                            0      0         0      VOLUME
                                                           12      11        10                            RT TURN ISLAND?      N


                                                                                             6         0       0   R
                                                                                             5    954          2   T
   PHF:     0.96          L     0           0   1                                            4        44       1   L    PHF:    0.96
                          T     3       1087 2                                                   VOL. LANES
                          R     0           9   3
                              LANES     VOL.


            RT TURN ISLAND?             N                           7        8        9
                                                     VOLUME        4         0       30
   El Camino Real                                        LANES     0         1        0                    RT TURN FLARE?       N
   MAJOR STREET                                                    L         T        R                    RT TURN ISLAND?      N
   DIRECTION:       N/S                                          PHF:        0.96
   SPEED LIMIT:           35 mph
   NEAR BY SIGNAL?              1                        Finger Avenue
                                                         MINOR STREET
                                                         DIRECTION:        E/W




   MAXIMUM QUEUE LENGTHS:
      (veh./lane)                                                 L/T/R
                                                           R       0         L
                                                           0       11        0
                                                           12                10




                                                                                             4    3        L
                                    L       0   1




   El Camino Real                                                   7                 9
                                                                   0         8        0
                                                                   L         3        R
                                                                           L/T/R
                                                         Finger Avenue


SOURCE: Gard, John T., "Estimation of Maximum Queue Lengths at Unsignalized Intersections"
            ITE Journal, November 2001


NOTE: Pedestrians not included in conflicting volumes.
                                                      MAXIMUM QUEUE LENGTHS
                                                     UNSIGNALIZED INTERSECTION
   INTERSECTION: El Camino Real & Finger Avenue                                                                         BY:     RKH
   AGENCY:          Redwood City                                                                                        DATE:   1/19/2011
   HOUR ANALYZED:             PM Peak Hour
   YEAR:    2011                             SCENARIO: Existing Conditions



                    TRAFFIC DATA:
                                                         PHF:       1.00
            RT TURN FLARE?              N                  R       T         L
            RT TURN ISLAND?             N                   0      0         0      LANES
                                                            0      0         0      VOLUME
                                                           12      11        10                            RT TURN ISLAND?      N


                                                                                             6         0       0   R
                                                                                             5   1356          2   T
   PHF:     0.99          L     0           0    1                                           4        67       1   L    PHF:    0.99
                          T     3       1354 2                                                   VOL. LANES
                          R     0           15   3
                              LANES     VOL.


            RT TURN ISLAND?             N                           7        8        9
                                                      VOLUME       11        0       10
   El Camino Real                                        LANES     0         1        0                    RT TURN FLARE?       N
   MAJOR STREET                                                    L         T        R                    RT TURN ISLAND?      N
   DIRECTION:       N/S                                          PHF:        0.99
   SPEED LIMIT:           35 mph
   NEAR BY SIGNAL?              1                        Finger Avenue
                                                         MINOR STREET
                                                         DIRECTION:        E/W




   MAXIMUM QUEUE LENGTHS:
      (veh./lane)                                                 L/T/R
                                                           R       0         L
                                                           0       11        0
                                                           12                10




                                                                                             4    4        L
                                    L       0    1




   El Camino Real                                                   7                 9
                                                                   0         8        0
                                                                   L         5        R
                                                                           L/T/R
                                                         Finger Avenue


SOURCE: Gard, John T., "Estimation of Maximum Queue Lengths at Unsignalized Intersections"
            ITE Journal, November 2001


NOTE: Pedestrians not included in conflicting volumes.
                                                       MAXIMUM QUEUE LENGTHS
                                                      UNSIGNALIZED INTERSECTION
   INTERSECTION: El Camino Real & Finger Avenue                                                                         BY:     RKH
   AGENCY:          Redwood City                                                                                        DATE:   1/19/2011
   HOUR ANALYZED:             AM Peak Hour
   YEAR:    2011                            SCENARIO: Project Conditions



                    TRAFFIC DATA:
                                                         PHF:       1.00
            RT TURN FLARE?              N                  R       T         L
            RT TURN ISLAND?             N                   0      0         0      LANES
                                                            0      0         0      VOLUME
                                                           12      11        10                            RT TURN ISLAND?      N


                                                                                             6         0       0   R
                                                                                             5    954          2   T
   PHF:     0.96          L     0           0   1                                            4        45       1   L    PHF:    0.96
                          T     3       1087 2                                                   VOL. LANES
                          R     0           9   3
                              LANES     VOL.


            RT TURN ISLAND?             N                           7        8        9
                                                     VOLUME        4         0       32
   El Camino Real                                        LANES     0         1        0                    RT TURN FLARE?       N
   MAJOR STREET                                                    L         T        R                    RT TURN ISLAND?      N
   DIRECTION:       N/S                                          PHF:        0.96
   SPEED LIMIT:           35 mph
   NEAR BY SIGNAL?              1                        Finger Avenue
                                                         MINOR STREET
                                                         DIRECTION:        E/W




   MAXIMUM QUEUE LENGTHS:
      (veh./lane)                                                 L/T/R
                                                           R       0         L
                                                           0       11        0
                                                           12                10




                                                                                             4    3        L
                                    L       0   1




   El Camino Real                                                   7                 9
                                                                   0         8        0
                                                                   L         4        R
                                                                           L/T/R
                                                         Finger Avenue


SOURCE: Gard, John T., "Estimation of Maximum Queue Lengths at Unsignalized Intersections"
            ITE Journal, November 2001


NOTE: Pedestrians not included in conflicting volumes.
                                                      MAXIMUM QUEUE LENGTHS
                                                     UNSIGNALIZED INTERSECTION
