         Safeway Redevelopment Project
     Broadway at Pleasant Valley Avenue
Technical Appendices to the Draft Environmental Impact Report

                                                  SCH No. 2009062097




                                                                Prepared for:

                                                           City of Oakland
                                                 250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza
                                                        Oakland, Ca 94612

                                                               January, 2013




                                                    LAMPHIER - GREGORY
                    Urban Planning, Environmental Analysis & Project Management
 Appendix 1A:
Notice of Preparation
                                    CITY                        OF                OAKLAND
Community         and Economic  Development  Agency,  Planning & Zoning  Division
250 Frank         H. Ogawa Plaza,  Suite 3315,  Oakland,   California, 94612-2032

                    NOTICE OF PREPARATION OF A
            DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT FOR THE
  SAFEWAY REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT (BROADWAY @ PLEASANT VALLEY AVE.)
The Oakland Community and Economic Development Agency, Planning and Zoning Division, is preparing a Draft
Environmental Impact Report ("EIR") for the Safeway Redevelopment Project (Broadway @ Pleasant Valley Avenue) (the
"Project") as identified below, and is requesting comments on the scope and content of the EIR. The EIR will address the
potential physical, environmental effects for each of the environmental topics outlined in the California Environmental
Quality Act ("CEQA"). The City has not prepared an Initial Study.

The City of Oakland is the Lead Agency for the Project and is the public agency with the greatest responsibility for
approving the Project or carrying it out. This notice is being sent to Responsible Agencies and other interested parties.
Responsible Agencies are those public agencies, besides the City of Oakland, that also have a role in approving or carrying
out the Project. When the Draft EIR is published, it will be sent to all Responsible Agencies and to others who respond to this
Notice of Preparation ("NOP") or who otherwise indicate that they would like to receive a copy. Responses to this NOP and
any questions or comments should be directed in writing to: Darin Ranelletti, Planner III, City of Oakland, Community and
Economic Development Agency, 250 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Suite 3315, Oakland, CA 94612; (510) 238-3663 (phone);
(510) 238-6538 (fax); or dranelletti@oaklandnet.com (e-mail). Comments on the NOP must be received at the above mailing,
fax, or e-mail address by 5:00 p.m. on July 27, 2009. Please reference case number ER09-007 in all correspondence. In
addition, comments may be provided at the EIR Scoping Meeting to be held before the City Planning Commission.
Comments should focus on discussing possible impacts on the physical environment, ways in which potential adverse effects
might be minimized, and alternatives to the project in light of the EIR's purpose to provide useful and accurate information
about such factors.

PUBLIC HEARING: The City Planning Commission will conduct a public hearing on the scope of the EIR for the
Project on July 15, 2009, at 6:00 p.m. in Hearing Room 1, City Hall, 1 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, Oakland, CA.

PROJECT TITLE: Safeway Redevelopment Project (Broadway @ Pleasant Valley Avenue)

PROJECT LOCATION: 5050-5100 Broadway, Oakland, CA (APN 014-1242-002-03 & 014-1242-005-07) (located at the
northeast corner of Broadway and Pleasant Valley Avenue) (see map on reverse)

PROJECT SPONSOR: Safeway, Inc., Northern California Division

EXISTING CONDITIONS: The 15.4-acre project site is the location of the existing Rockridge Shopping Center, which
contains several retail stores including Safeway, Long's Drugs (now CVS), and others totaling approximately 185,000 square
feet of commercial space. The site is not listed on the Cortese List of hazardous waste sites.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The Project includes the demolition of the Safeway and Long's Drugs stores, along with other
adjacent stores, and the redevelopment and remodeling of the site with the construction of a new Safeway store, a new CVS
store, and other commercial buildings. The project would contain a total of approximately 304,000 square feet of commercial
space and 1,006 parking spaces. Also proposed are modifications to adjacent streets including additional vehicle travel lanes
and/or turn lanes.

PROBABLE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS: It is anticipated that the Project may have environmental impacts on
aesthetics, traffic/circulation, air quality, noise, geology/soils, hazards/hazardous materials, hydrology/water quality,
utilities/service systems and biological resources. It is anticipated that the Project will not have significant environmental
impacts on agricultural resources, cultural resources; land use plans and policies; mineral resources; population and housing;
public services, recreation and cumulative growth. Nevertheless, these environmental factors will be analyzed in the EIR.

The Draft EIR will also examine a reasonable range of alternatives to the Project, including the CEQA-mandated No Project
Alternative, and other potential alternatives that may be capable of reducing or avoiding potential environmental effects.

June 26, 2009                                         Eric Angstadt
File Number: ER09-007                                 Deputy Director, Community and Economic Development Agency
                                                      Environmental Review Officer
                   Safeway Redevelopment Project Site
                                                 (Broadway @ Pleasant Valley)




                                                                                                                                      Legend




                                                       Project Site




0   150   300ft




          It is imperative that you obtain BOTH the Zoning and General Plan designations for the property(s) you are searching for.

          Questions? Contact a planner at (510)238-3911.

          Printed: 6/17/2009 4:03:33 PM
              Appendix 1B:
Responses to Notice of Preparation
EIR Scope Issues:

· Catchment Area: At over 300,000 sf, the proposed Shopping Center certainly achieves
   sub-regional status (a typical Wal-Mart can be over 200,000 feet, although some newer
   stores are around 155k.) We understand that Safeway is marketing to proposed retail
   leaseholders that the catchment area is up to five miles. It seems completely reasonable to
   request that a traffic analysis, along with environmental impacts thereof (particularly GHG
   generation in support of the requirements of AB 32) be expanded to cover at least the same
   area. An enlarged catchment area would also seem to be justified by their proposed parking
   count: Our count shows that they are providing about 100 more spaces than would be called
   for per City requirements.

· Blight Generation: The proposed project contains almost 120,000 sf more retaiVoffice
   space than the present shopping center. The Broadway corridor, downtown, and other retail
   neighborhood commercial areas are experiencing growing vacancies. What is the potential
   for continued and increasing blight and diminishment of the streetscape in these areas if all
   this potential retail moves to the new Center?

· Phasing: Along the same vein, look at the Phasing plan on page 22 of the Staff Report:
   What if the project is approved, but the leasing doesn't go as planned? The community
   could be stuck with a sea of parking with the store way over in the back comer. On the
   other hand, this might simply leave a more developable lot up front for new mixed-use
   development. Retail occupancy should also be need based and focused on neighborhood
   services as opposed to chain stores that offer retail for the sake of retail. Interim vacancies
   or phasing would allow for better long-term use planning.

· Integration of Transit: Also along these lines, the distance to the proposed Safeway store
   entrance is more than 114 mile from either of the bus stops for the 51 at Pleasant Valley.
   Numerous studies show that this is more than the maximum distance people will typically
   walk to transit-let alone while schlepping bags.

Alternate Proposals

Any alternate proposals in the study must include mixed income and affordable housing,
integrate and provide for pedestrian, transit, and bicycling access, while knitting together
the various neighborhoods that adjoin the site through walkable streetscapes and varied,
neighborhood-serving retail.

As an example, ULTRA has developed a proposed alternative that addresses these criteria, as
shown in the attached drawings. We request that this alternative be studied as a viable
alternative. In addition, the plan specifically addresses the Planning Commission's comments
about getting "innovative retail" on the site, and providing for multi-modal access to the grocery
store. We propose that the Safeway be located along Broadway, with its "boutique" operations,
such as the deli, bakery, and butcher shop, etc., fronting onto Broadway, with access from both
the main store as well as the street. We realize that there are issues involving store security and
manpower in this approach, but the potential for increased sales through walk-up traffic is
there-just consider the success of Market Hall. Another successful example is the mixed-use
Gish Apartments in San Jose. There, the 7/11 chain took a chance on its frrst non-strip mall
store in the South Bay, without surface parking, but located at a light rail stop, and below an
apartment building. In the South Bay, the typical 7/11 gets more than 90% of its traffic by
automobile. At Gish, it is less than 50%, but the store is now the highest grossing 7/11 in
San Jose.

From a cursory perspective, we think a project of this size would fit within the current zoning
envelope. In addition to the features described in the attached drawings, please note the
following features:
    · Density, unit types, and livability: While it is possible to increase residential density as
       shown in several of the Conley options, the only way to do that would be to increase
       height and/or go to predominantly double-loaded corridor buildings with single-aspect
       (that is, windows on one side) apartments. Such units are not appropriate for households
       with children. Besides having the opportunity to be larger and with more bedrooms,
       double-aspect units provide flow-through ventilation and increased natural lighting,
       reducing energy consumption. Our proposed scheme offers a diversity of unit types,
       from one-bedroom apartments and 1-2 bedroom flats, to 2-3 bedroom townhouses. We
       also show a dormitory for California College of the Arts (CCA) should they be
       interested in developing a podium project with direct linkage to the campus, this could
       also be another apartment building instead. Flexible space and community access by
       resident and community groups, youth activities, etc. should be part of the development
       project.
    · Height: As a result, the proposed project should top out at around the height of the
       adjacent bluffs, which should diffuse opposition from uphill neighbors.
    · The reservoir is a potential natural resource that needs to be integrated into the site
       because it provides an opportunity to create an urban oasis at the junction of three
       neighborhoods that are underserved by parks.

There should be no question about the feasibility of housing at this site. Housing developers
would find this location very desirable because of the super market, other retail, and proximity
to transit options.

An affordable housing component as part of any housing on the site should also be studied. In
our proposal, at a typical 80/20 ratio, that would compute to about 68 units. The apartment
building shown on the plan, for example, would be ideal for a HUD 202 (senior independent
living) project. The location near shopping, medical and other senior services, and public
transportation would all boost the chances of winning competitive Federal funding (capital
grant, tax credits, etc.) An alternative design team might include a non-profit housing developer.

Lastly, we think that the DEIR for this project should also include all scoping comments
submitted by the community.
           Appendix 4.1:
          Urban Decay Analysis
ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Safeway Rockridge Store
Shopping Center
Urban Decay Analysis




Prepared for:

Lamphier-Gregory




Prepared by:

ALH|ECON
ALH Urban & Regional Economics




October 2012
 ALH|ECON
 ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                                                                    2239 Oregon Street
                                                                                   Berkeley, CA 94705
                                                                                        510-704-1599
                                                                                aherman@alhecon.com




October 28, 2012


Scott Gregory
Lamphier-Gregory
1944 Embarcadero
Oakland, CA 94606

Re: Urban Decay Analysis for the Rockridge Safeway Expansion Project

Dear Mr. Gregory:

ALH Urban & Regional Economics (ALH Economics) is pleased to present this study regarding
the urban decay analysis of the planned Rockridge Safeway expansion project in the City of
Oakland. This study highlights the study findings regarding the economic impact/urban decay
analysis of the planned 17,038-square-foot expansion of the existing Safeway store and
additional development of 120,034 square feet of commercial and common space. The
purpose of this report is to provide an assessment of the potential for the project to cause or
contribute to urban decay.

It has been a pleasure working with you on this project. Please let me know if you have any
questions or concerns.


Sincerely,




Amy L. Herman, AICP
Principal


C:\ALH Econ\2011 Projects\1109\Safeway 1109\Reports\Safeway Rockridge.r02.doc
                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ...................................................................................................... 1
    INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................. 1
    SUMMARY OF FINDINGS....................................................................................................... 2
    URBAN DECAY DETERMINATION ............................................................................................. 7

II. INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................... 10
    STUDY BACKGROUND ....................................................................................................... 10
    STUDY TASKS ................................................................................................................... 11
    STUDY RESOURCES AND REPORT ORGANIZATION ..................................................................... 11

III. PROJECTED PROJECT SALES ......................................................................................... 13
    PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...................................................................................................... 13
    PROJECTED SAFEWAY AND OTHER PROJECT SALES..................................................................... 14

IV. MARKET AREA DEFINITION ........................................................................................... 19
    APPROACH ..................................................................................................................... 19
    MARKET AREA DESCRIPTION AND BOUNDARIES......................................................................... 19
    KEY MARKET AREA SHOPPING CORRIDORS............................................................................... 20

V. RETAIL SALES BASE CHARACTERIZATION ....................................................................... 24
    METHODOLOGY .............................................................................................................. 24
    MARKET AREA RETAIL SALES BASE ........................................................................................... 25
    RETAIL LEAKAGE AND ATTRACTION FINDINGS .......................................................................... 26

VI. PROJECT SALES IMPACTS ............................................................................................. 28
    APPROACH ..................................................................................................................... 28
    RECAPTURED LEAKAGE POTENTIAL ........................................................................................ 28
    ESTIMATED MARKET AREA SALES IMPACTS ................................................................................ 30

VII. GROCERY AND FOOD STORE IMPACTS ...................................................................... 31
    COMPETITIVE GROCERY AND FOOD STORES IDENTIFICATION AND PERFORMANCE ............................ 31
    INDIVIDUALIZED STORE ANALYSIS WITHIN THE MARKET AREA ........................................................ 33
    OTHER FOOD STORES NEAR THE MARKET AREA ......................................................................... 39
    GROCERY AND FOOD STORES MOST SUSCEPTIBLE TO IMPACTS .................................................... 45
    OFFSETTING EFFECTS OF FUTURE GROWTH ............................................................................. 47

VIII. CUMULATIVE PROJECT IMPACTS ................................................................................ 48
    IDENTIFIED RETAIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ............................................................................ 48
    CUMULATIVE PROJECT SALES ESTIMATES AND SALES IMPACTS ....................................................... 50

IX. URBAN DECAY DETERMINATION .................................................................................. 54
    STUDY DEFINITION OF URBAN DECAY .................................................................................... 54
    APPROACH TO DETERMINING URBAN DECAY POTENTIAL ............................................................. 54
    THE CURRENT ENVIRONMENT .............................................................................................. 54
    POTENTIAL FOR URBAN DECAY RESULTING FROM THE PROJECT .................................................... 56

ASSUMPTIONS AND GENERAL LIMITING CONDITIONS ..................................................... 60
APPENDIX A: EXHIBITS (Exhibits 1­ 22)

APPENDIX B: SUPPORT EXHIBITS (Exhibits B-1 ­ B-9)

APPENDIX C: FIRM INTRODUCTION
                                     LIST OF EXHIBITS
                                       (Appendix A)


Exhibit 1. Project Description

Exhibit 2. Rockridge Safeway Shopping Center Distribution of Net Sales Estimates, in 2011
           Dollars

Exhibit 3. Rockridge Safeway Market Area and Competitive Grocery Stores Map

Exhibit 4. Rockridge and College & Claremeont Safeways Overlapping Market Areas Map

Exhibit 5. Household Estimates and Projections, Project Market Area, 2000-2015

Exhibit 6. City of Oakland Taxable Sales and Share of Market Area Sales in the City of
           Oakland, in Current Dollars, Second Half 2009 and First Half 2010

Exhibit 7. City of Piedmont Taxable Sales Estimate, BOE Sales Adjusted per Claritas
           Benchmark, in Current Dolalrs, Second Half 2009 and First Half 2010

Exhibit 8. Market Area Retail Sales Base, in Current Dollars, Second Half 2009 and First Half
           2010

Exhibit 9. Overlapping Market Area of the Two Proposed Safeway Stores, Market Area Retail
           Sales within City of Oakland, in 2010 Dollars

Exhibit 10. Market Area Retail Demand, Sales Attraction, and Spending Analysis, 2010
            (in $000s)

Exhibit 11. City of Oakland Retail Demand, Sales Attraction, and Spending Analysis, 2010
            (in $000s)

Exhibit 12. Adjusted Market Area Retail Sales Base, 2011 Estimate

Exhibit 13. Potential Sales Impacts, in 2011 Dollars

Exhibit 14. New Demand Generated by Household Growth in the Market Area, 2012-2015, in
            2011 Dollars

Exhibit 15. Cumulative Major Retail Developments (10,000+ Square Feet), Within and Near the
            Market Area

Exhibit 16. College & Claremont Safeway Store, Project Description

Exhibit 17. College & Claremont Safeway Store, Distribution of Sales and Net Sales Estimates,
            in 2011 Dollars

Exhibit 18. Sales Estimates for Cumulative Projects, in 2011 Dollars
                                     LIST OF EXHIBITS
                                       (Appendix A)


Exhibit 19. Estimate of Cumulative Project Sales by BOE Category, in 2011 Dollars

Exhibit 20. Potential Sales Impacts from Cumulative Projects, in 2011 Dollars

Exhibit 21. City of Oakland Vacancy Trends, 2006 Through Q1 2012

Exhibit 22. Available Oakland Retail Properties, June 2012
                               LIST OF SUPPORT EXHIBITS
                                      (Appendix B)


Exhibit B-1. Calculation of Sales per Square foot Estimates, Select Retail Stores and Store
             Types

Exhibit B-2. Rockridge Safeway Store Market Area, Constituent Census Tracts and
             City Match

Exhibit B-3. Rockridge and College & Claremont Safeway Stores, Common Market Area
             Census Tracts, Constituent Census Tracts and City Match

Exhibit B-4. Translation of Claritas Retail Sales Categories to BOE Categories, Portion of
              Market Area within City of Oakland, in 2010 Dollars (millions)

Exhibit B-5. Translation of Claritas Retail Sales Categories to BOE Categories, City of Oakland
             in 2010 Dollars (millions)

Exhibit B-6. Project Market Area Retail Sales within City of Oakland, in 2010 Dollars

Exhibit B-7. Translation of Claritas Retail Sales Categories to BOE Categories, City of
              Piedmont, in 2010 Dollars (millions)

Exhibit B-8. Portion of Market Area in Common with Rockridge and College & Claremont
             Safeway Stores, Translation of Claritas Retail Sales Categories to BOE
             Categories, in 2010 Dollars (millions)

Exhibit B-9. Allocations of Unknown Retail Space into BOE Categories by Shopping Center
             Format
                                     I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

INTRODUCTION


The purpose of this study is to assess the economic impact and potential for urban decay resulting
from redevelopment of the Rockridge Shopping Center located at the intersection of Pleasant
Valley Avenue/51st Street and Broadway in Oakland, California (referred to as the "Project"). Site
redevelopment will include relocation and expansion of the shopping center's existing Safeway
supermarket within the site as well as the demolition of other existing retail space and development
of a net increment in total retail space. The City of Oakland retained Lamphier-Gregory to prepare
an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the proposed project. Accordingly, ALH Urban & Regional
Economics ("ALH Economics") was retained to conduct this urban decay analysis. This study
estimates the potential impacts of the expanded Safeway store and net new incremental space on
existing retailers in the market area pursuant to diverted sales from existing retailers. The study
estimates the extent to which the opening of the Project and other cumulative retail projects may or
may not contribute to urban decay resulting from potential store closures attributable to existing
retailer sales diversions.

The existing Safeway store totals 47,975 square feet. Upon relocation and expansion, the store will
include 65,013 square feet, reflecting a net increase of 17,038 square feet. In addition to the
Safeway store redevelopment, the Project will include the demolition of an existing 87,220-square-
foot CVS store and the development of an additional net new 257,523 square feet of commercial
and common space. This 257,523 net new square feet of commercial and common space will
comprise restaurant space, additional retail space, and non-retail and common space. In all, there
will be approximately 108,000 total square feet of net new commercial space, plus additional net
new common space.

The new Safeway store will include roof-top parking. The additional tenants, which have not yet
been identified, will occupy two-story office above retail space, and new street-facing retail
buildings with parking behind and additional roof-top parking. The main entrance will front on
Pleasant Valley Avenue, along the edge of the Project site, with an additional entrance along
Broadway. With the exception of the existing Safeway space, all existing property structures will be
demolished prior to the development of the new store and the phased development of additional
commercial spaces. The development phasing will facilitate limited, if any, downtime for the
Safeway store. After Safeway's relocation within the development site the existing store space will
be demolished followed by other new construction.

The Project is part of an effort by Safeway Stores to upgrade many of its Northern California
Safeway stores into Lifestyle stores. Among other elements, Lifestyle stores have a strong emphasis
on providing quality perishables, such as produce, meat, delicatessen, bakery, prepared foods,
and floral department. Lifestyle stores additionally include unique merchandising fixtures and a
variety of island displays with specialty items. Safeway is additionally in the process of seeking
approval to rebuild and expand the existing College & Claremont Safeway store located at the
College & Claremont avenues in Oakland, and recently rebuilt the Berkeley store at Shattuck
Avenue and Rose Street.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis              1                       ALH Urban & Regional Economics
This study estimates the potential impacts of the Project's tenants on existing retailers in the
Project's market area and other potentially affected areas, primarily in the form of diverted sales
from existing retailers. The study estimates the extent to which the opening of the Project and other
cumulative retail projects may or may not contribute to urban decay pursuant to potential store
closures attributable to existing retailer sales diversions. The key indicator from a CEQA perspective
is impacts on the physical environment, which includes existing stores and commercial real estate
conditions, as measured by the current baseline. This is the baseline reflected by existing conditions
discussed in this report. Fieldwork for this study was conducted in October 2011, with
supplemental field visits in 2012.

The findings and analysis are presented in 2011 dollars. This generally reflects data availability but
most importantly facilitates analysis of the Project in comparison to the proposed Safeway
expansion project at the College & Claremont store in Oakland, with the environmental review and
public approvals process for that store already underway, including a comparable urban decay
analysis.

SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

Project Sales

ALH Economics estimates that net new stabilized Project sales will total $66.1 million in 2011
dollars. Of this amount, 80% is estimated to be generated by residents of the Project's market
area, equivalent to $52.9 million in sales. The remaining 20% of sales are assumed to be
attributed to consumers residing outside of the Project's market area, including consumers who
work near the site but live elsewhere and destination shoppers originating from a widely dispersed
area. It is not possible to identify the stores that these shoppers would otherwise frequent and
accordingly assess their urban decay impacts.

The Project's market area is defined as portions of north and central Oakland and the City of
Piedmont. Generally speaking, the boundary includes the border of the City of Berkeley on the
north, San Pablo and Grand avenues on the west, Park Boulevard on the south, and Highway 13
in the Oakland Hills and the Rockridge Neighborhood in the east. 1

By category of retail sales, based upon assumptions for the Project's net new retail space and
pursuant to the State of California Board of Equalization's sales categories, the Project's estimated
sales generated by market area residents comprise the following:

      ·   $12.8 million in other retail sales;
      ·   $11.6 million in clothing & clothing accessories;
      ·   $10.9 million in food & beverage store sales;
      ·   $6.5 million in home furnishings & appliances;
      ·   $5.7 million in general merchandise; and
      ·   $5.4 million in food services & drinking places (restaurants).

The other retail category is a broad category that includes a wide range of goods, such as office
supplies, books, pet supplies, toys, pharmacy, jewelry, and sporting goods.

1
    See Map in Exhibit 3 for more detail, and more detailed text description in Chapter IV.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                   2                         ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Stabilized sales are not expected to occur the first year of store operations, but rather the second or
third year, which is typical of new retail operations. The longer it takes for the Project to stabilize
sales, the less impact there will be on local retailers, due to the effects of new demand.

Project Absorption of Retail Sales Leakage

The Project's market area is estimated to have a $949.0 million sales base in 2011, comprising a
portion of Oakland and the City of Piedmont. Despite this high level of sales, a substantial amount
of demand generated by market area residents "leaks" from the market area, meaning that
sufficient retail shopping opportunities are not available in the market area to fully capture
demand generated by market area residents. The only exception to this leakage is in the food &
beverage category, where the market area is estimated to achieve 23.3% sales attraction, meaning
23.3% more sales in this category are achieved than would be expected from resident spending
alone. Inclusive of this sales attraction, the market area as a whole leaks 41.0% of resident
spending potential, meaning that 41.0% of resident spending on average is spent outside the
market area.

The Rockridge Safeway Project will provide opportunities for recapture of some existing retail
leakage in categories other than food & beverage. The amount of recaptured leakage will depend
upon the nature of the Project's retail opportunities and the complexity of the retail purchase. This
study estimates that all of the Project's clothing & clothing accessories, food services & drinking
places (e.g., restaurants & and bars), general merchandise, and other retail sales will be
accounted for through recaptured leakage. This recapture will account for an estimated $35.5
million of Project sales generated by market area residents. Even after the Project's recapture of
these sales, leakage in these categories will persist, with residents still needing to make purchases
in these categories outside the market area to meet their needs.

There will also be potential for some of the Project's $6.5 million sales in the home furnishings &
appliances category to be achieved through recaptured leakage. However, the study does not
assume that all Project sales from market area residents in this category will represent recaptured
leakage. This is because this retail sales category is a comparative shopping category, hence
consumers are typically willing to travel longer distances to purchase these goods. It is therefore
unlikely that all the Project's sales in this category will comprise purchases the market area
residents would not otherwise make in the market area. Accordingly, the analysis assumes that
one-half the Project's other retail sales will constitute recaptured leakage, totaling $3.3 in
recaptured sales.

In total, the analysis assumes that $38.7 million in Project sales will be achieved through
recaptured sales leakage. While this recaptured sales leakage amount translates into new Project
and market area sales, the constituent recaptured sales will still occur to the detriment of other
existing retailers. It is difficult to identify which existing retailers outside the market area may
experience sales reductions as a result of the Project's recaptured leakage. These outside market
area retailers are most likely located over a wide area, depending on the nature of the good, and
probably include stores in other Oakland locations, Berkeley, Emeryville, and even San Francisco.
This is such a widely dispersed area that it is unlikely that any particular store outside the market
area would lose sufficient sales attributable to the Project resulting in store closure, and thus would
not lead to urban decay in this more generalized area.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                3                        ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Sales Impacts

After consideration of out of market area sales and recaptured sales leakage, the Rockridge
Safeway Project has the potential to divert $14.2 million in sales from existing market area
retailers. This sales volume includes all of the Project's anticipated $10.9 million in food sales
generated by market area residents as well as $3.3 million in home furnishings & appliances sales.

Grocery and Food Stores. The market area is characterized by food sales attraction.
Consequently, the analysis conservatively assumes that any Project food sales generated by market
area residents will occur to the detriment of existing food & beverage retailers in the market area.
The study anticipates that grocery stores with conventional and upscale orientations are most
susceptible to sales impacts from the expanded Rockridge Safeway store given the store's
repositioning as a Lifestyle brand store, which is considered more upscale than the standard
Safeway stores. These stores include the following Oakland stores: Safeway located at College &
Claremont Avenues; the Safeway on Grand Avenue; Piedmont Grocery on Piedmont Avenue;
Whole Foods on Bay Place; and Trader Joe's on College Avenue and Lakeshore Avenue. The
distance of these stores from the Project site is 1.1, 1.6, 1.0, 2.1, 0.7, and 2.3 miles, respectively.
Several other larger grocery stores outside the market area are also anticipated to incur some sales
impacts, mostly due to changed shopping patterns among shoppers who live in portions of the
market area that overlap with the market areas for these other stores. These stores include the
Whole Foods on Telegraph Avenue in Berkeley, the Pak `n Save on San Palo Avenue in Emeryville,
the Berkeley Bowl Main store in Berkeley, and the Lucky and Safeway on Mountain Boulevard in
Oakland's Montclair Village. It is possible that all of these stores might incur some degree of sales
impacts following the redevelopment of the Rockridge Safeway store, as shoppers explore the
broader options available at the expanded store while still continuing to shop at these other stores.

In addition, the nearby smaller niche food markets Village Market on Broadway Terrace, Monte
Vista Food Center on Piedmont Avenue, and Lakeshore Produce & Health Foods on Lakeshore
Avenue are anticipated to at least initially experience some sales impacts. It will be incumbent upon
these small stores to continue to provide quality service and products to retain their loyal
customers. This group of stores also includes Yasai Produce Market and Ver Brugge Meat-Fish
Poultry, both on College Avenue, if the planned College & Claremont Safeway expansion is not
approved. Even with the greater volume of goods that will be available at the expanded Safeway,
all of these smaller niche stores are anticipated to continue to provide customer service and
product selection not typically thought of by customers of these stores as being available at
Safeway.

Many of the market area grocery stores are outperforming national averages. Because of their
strong performance, the relatively low volume of sales impacts, and number and geographical
dispersion of the potentially impacted stores, all of the conventional, upscale, and niche food
stores are anticipated to be able to withstand the competition from the expanded Safeway store.
Most of these stores are strong performers with a strong customer base, especially the larger
stores. As experienced retailers, they are anticipated to be able to counterbalance product-based
sales losses with new merchandising strategies, and thereby retain loyal customers.

In conclusion, existing grocery and food stores are not anticipated to experience sales impacts
attributable to the Project so severe as to induce store closure. Impacts are anticipated to be spread



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                4                       ALH Urban & Regional Economics
widely, dispersed among a range of existing food stores. Moreover, the stores anticipated to
experience the greatest impacts are the stores achieving among the highest sales performance,
with these high sales buffering the potential impacts of any prospective sales losses.

Home Furnishings & Appliances. The $3.3 million in home furnishings & appliances sales
impacts comprises a substantial percentage of the market area sales base in home furnishings &
appliances. In absolute terms, however, this is a low sales impact figure, and the space equivalent
of this amount of sales is about 10,000 square feet. Therefore, it is very unlikely that any one
retailer in the home furnishings & appliances retail category in the market area will incur all these
sales impacts, such that any existing stores will close. Accordingly, these impacts are anticipated to
be minor and unsubstantial relative to the existing market area retail base.

Offsetting Effects of Future Growth

The Safeway expansion is estimated to be completed in 2014, with completion of the center
anticipated to follow in 2015. There may be potential for new market area growth to generate yet
additional demand for food sales in and near the market area. With 2015 estimated as the first
full year of operations for the relocated and expanded Safeway store, demographic projections
suggest the potential for 1,845 new households in the market area between 2012 and 2015.
Although the amount of actual growth may prove less than that which is projected, it provides a
sense of the potential demand that could be generated pursuant to residential development in the
market area.

These 1,845 new households are estimated to generate $54.8 million in retail demand. The
largest component of this demand is $9.1 million for food stores, the great majority of which
would likely be captured in the market area given the propensity for consumers to purchase
groceries relatively close to home. This level of demand, therefore, if realized, could offset up to
84% of the maximum $10.9 million in food sales impacts. There is demand for yet additional retail
categories, which would also help offset the estimated Project impacts in the home furnishings &
appliances category and generally boost the market area's retail sales base.

While the demographic growth projections may be overstated, with the estimated level of demand
correspondingly aggressive, this analysis nonetheless indicates the potential for some increment of
new household growth in the market area to be generated prior to the completion of the Rockridge
Safeway Project. This new demand will offset some of the Project's anticipated negative sales
impacts on existing market area grocery and food stores.

Cumulative Project Impacts

The study identified 16 potential cumulative retail development projects in the market area and
surrounding areas. Of these 16 projects, 12 were determined to have the potential to contribute
along with the Project to market area sales impacts. Given assumptions about project size, sales,
and degree of market area overlap with the Project, these 12 projects are estimated to generate
$56.4 million of sales assumed to be competitive with the Project and generated by residents within
the Project's market area. Based on sales distributions and the potential for further absorption of
existing leakage, these cumulative projects, in association with the Rockridge Safeway Project, have
the potential to increase the market area sales impact from $14.2 million for just the Project to
$59.7 million.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis               5                        ALH Urban & Regional Economics
There are three retail categories that are estimated to experience incremental sales impacts on top
of the sales impacts from the Project alone that are more than negligible, especially relative to the
existing sales base. These include an incremental $19.4 million in food & beverage store impacts,
an incremental $6.1 million in clothing & clothing accessories, and an incremental $20.0 in other
retail impacts. As with the Project impacts, extensive market area retail leakage will still remain
following development of the cumulative projects. This remaining leakage provides an opportunity
for other retailers to enter the marketplace focused on satisfying unmet retail demand.

Clothing & Clothing Accessories Impacts. The incremental impact in this category is moderate,
totaling $6.1 million in clothing & clothing accessories. The square footage equivalent of these
impacts is fairly limited, comprising 14,000 square feet of space. This increment of space is small,
so the more likely scenario is that existing retailers will lose some increment of sales, but not so
much as to induce store closure. Therefore, ALH Economics does not believe the clothing/clothing
accessories impacts will result in any store closures and will therefore have no potential to
contribute to or cause urban decay.

Other Retail Sales Impacts. Despite the incremental increase, the impacts in the other retail
category are not anticipated to be sufficient to cause existing stores to close. The space equivalent
of the estimated $20.0 million in impacts is equivalent to support for about 56,000 square feet of
retail space. The nature of the other retail impacts will be dependent upon the type of retailers that
locate in all of the cumulative projects. Almost every cumulative project is estimated to have some
component of sales in this broad category, which can include sporting goods, office supplies, pet
supplies, jewelry, toy stores, pharmacy, and gifts and hobbies, among other retailers. In all
likelihood, each project will have a different mix of retailers comprising this category, such that one
narrow type of retail will not experience all the estimated cumulative other retail impacts. This will
serve to spread and thereby minimize the impacts. Because the increment of space is sizeable, the
likely scenario is that existing retailers will lose some increment of sales, but not so much as to
induce store closure. Therefore, ALH Economics does not believe the other retail impacts will result
in any store closures and will therefore have no potential to contribute to or cause urban decay.

Food Sales Impacts. The incremental $30.3 million in food sales impact attributable to the
cumulative projects are likely to be experienced within the market area as well as outside the
market area, due to the wide variety of food store shopping opportunities available throughout the
region and the nature of the projects generating the incremental cumulative food sales impacts,
such as discount food retailer Foods Co. In addition, this level of sales impact may be overstated
because the analysis assumed that almost every planned cumulative project would have some
component of food sales, consistent with their anticipated neighborhood retail characterization.
This may be an overestimate, depending upon the actual profiles of the future cumulative project
tenants. Future demand pursuant to household growth will also comprise a factor serving to
minimize the cumulative food sales impacts.

The majority of the impacts that remain following these offsetting factors will likely continue to be
experienced by the same major stores anticipated to incur impacts from the Rockridge Safeway
Project, namely the Trader Joe's on College Avenue, the Safeway at College and Claremont (if the
planned expansion is not approved), Piedmont Grocery on Piedmont Avenue, the Safeway on
Grand Avenue, Whole Foods on Bay Place, and the Trader Joe's on Lakeshore Avenue. This is
because the majority of the cumulative sales continue to be generated by Safeway, such that stores



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                6                       ALH Urban & Regional Economics
directly competitive with Safeway will likely be the stores most impacted. Because of the strong
performance of these market area food retailers, the cumulative project food sales impacts are not
anticipated to result in any store closures, and therefore are not anticipated to contribute to or
cause urban decay.

As with the Project impacts, some smaller grocery and food stores within the market area and
beyond might experience some short-term changes in demand as shoppers explore the expanded
shopping opportunities presented by the cumulative projects. However, these shoppers are
ultimately anticipated to restore some, if not all of their diverted shopping to these small grocery or
food stores after an initial time period, especially if the cumulative projects do not comprise a
substantially new food store offering, which is not anticipated. If, however, any existing stores do
close as a result of food sales impacts, the extent to which such store closures become problematic
for the retail market will also depend upon the market strength, regulatory controls, and actions
pursued by property owners.

URBAN DECAY DETERMINATION

Definition of Urban Decay

For the purpose of this analysis, urban decay is defined as, among other characteristics, visible
symptoms of physical deterioration that invite vandalism, loitering, and graffiti that is caused by a
downward spiral of business closures and long term vacancies. This physical deterioration to
properties or structures is so prevalent, substantial, and lasting for a significant period of time that
it impairs the proper utilization of the properties and structures, and the health, safety, and welfare
of the surrounding community. The manifestations of urban decay include such visible conditions
as plywood-boarded doors and windows, parked trucks and long term unauthorized use of the
properties and parking lots, extensive gang and other graffiti and offensive words painted on
buildings, dumping of refuse on site, overturned dumpsters, broken parking barriers, broken glass
littering the site, dead trees and shrubbery together with weeds, lack of building maintenance,
homeless encampments, and unsightly and dilapidated fencing.

Retail Market Characteristics

Oakland has generally maintained a relatively healthy retail market sector. As of first quarter
2012, Oakland had an overall retail vacancy rate of 3.9%. This rate falls in the middle of noted
rates during the 2006 to 2012 time period, with vacancy as high as 4.9% and as low as 2.7%.
Throughout the course of the most recent recession and its aftermath retail vacancy has been low
in Oakland, never exceeding 4.9% since the first quarter of 2011. This indicates a strong retail
market in the City of Oakland, which has a base of approximately 22.3 million square feet of retail
space. In general, retail markets are deemed most healthy when there is some increment of
vacancy, at least 5.0%, which allows for market fluidity and growth of existing retailers. Thus, the
current Oakland retail vacancy rate of 3.9% is a low vacancy rate, indicative of a very strong and
tight retail market.

Despite the low vacancy rate, there are a number of retail vacancies in Oakland. However,
relatively few of these vacancies are located in the market area, especially in the market area's
major retail nodes. Moreover, many of these vacancies are among older properties located in
areas that are not among Oakland's key shopping districts. Regardless of location, retail vacancies



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                7                        ALH Urban & Regional Economics
in the entire City of Oakland indicate 115 retail leases were executed over the one-year time frame
from April 2011 through the end of March 2012, totaling approximately 214,160 square feet of
leased space, with an average size of about 1,900 square feet. This volume of lease transactions,
during a period of time still effected by the most recent national recession, is an indicator of strong
interest in Oakland's commercial retail market. This absorption, and the strong market conditions
prevalent in the market area's most established retail nodes, suggest that any vacancies that might
occur as a result of Safeway Project impacts would likely be backfilled within a reasonable time
and not be characterized by prolonged vacancy.

Urban Decay Conclusion

ALH Economics focused on determining whether or not physical deterioration would likely result
from the opening of the Project and other cumulative retail developments in reaching a conclusion
about urban decay. The conclusion is based on consideration of current market conditions,
findings regarding diverted sales, and regulatory controls. Highlights of these findings are as
follows:

        Current Market Conditions: The field research and market research indicated
        that retail market conditions are strong in the market area. The City of Oakland
        has a low retail vacancy rate, with few vacancies in the market area's major
        commercial shopping nodes. This indicates that while there are a few such
        properties, long-term retail vacancy is not a prevalent issue in the market area.
        There are limited retail properties in Piedmont and thus no appreciable retail
        vacancy in Piedmont. Existing retail vacancies generally appear well-maintained
        and retail vacancies in the market area are typically absorbed quickly, especially in
        the market area's major retail shopping districts. There are only limited instances of
        poorly maintained retail vacancies within the market area.
    
        Diverted Sales and Additional Retail Leakage: ALH Economics anticipates
        that despite the Project's and cumulative projects' sales impacts, especially in the
        food & beverage category, existing retailers will not close as a result of the new
        project openings. The most competitive existing stores are high retail sales
        performers and are anticipated to be able to withstand the enhanced competition.
        However, if any stores do close, the market area is anticipated to be characterized
        by continued retail leakage in almost all major retail categories. This remaining
        leakage provides an opportunity for other retailers to enter the marketplace
        focused on satisfying unmet retail demand. Given the size of Oakland's retail
        market, over 200,000 incremental square feet would need to become vacant to
        increase Oakland's retail vacancy rate by 1.0%. Even with this level of increment,
        the Oakland retail market would still be operating at a healthy overall vacancy
        rate.

        Regulatory Controls: City ordinances, such as the City of Oakland Municipal
        Code of Ordinances Chapter 8.10 on Graffiti, Chapter 8.18.060 on Noxious
        Weeds, Chapter 8.24 on Property Blight, Chapter 8.38.170 on Dumping Garbage,
        Chapter 8.54 on Vacant Building Registration, Chapter 12.04 on Sidewalk,
        Driveway, and Curb Construction and Maintenance, require property owners to
        maintain their properties so as not to create a nuisance by creating a condition that



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                8                       ALH Urban & Regional Economics
        reduces property values and promotes blight and neighborhood deterioration.
        Enforcement of these ordinances can help prevent physical deterioration due to any
        long-term closures of retail spaces. Code enforcement is managed by the City of
        Oakland's Building Services Division. They look into the accumulation of trash,
        debris, graffiti, and other blight on properties. The Building Services Division is
        responsible for enforcement and is allowed to take actions needed to enforce the
        ordinances. Also, according to Municipal Code Chapter 15.08.110, the owner in
        violation, "is liable for any costs, expenses, accruing interest, and disbursements
        paid for or incurred by the City of Oakland and any of its contractors in correction,
        abatement, and prosecution of the violation." 2 Citizens can report code violations
        through a telephone hotline or online form. Once a complaint is issued and
        determined valid, the owner has 16 days to pay the violation ticket or work with the
        City to fix the violation.

        Similar codes also exist in the City of Piedmont, such as the City of Piedmont
        Municipal Code of Ordinances Chapter 6 on the Abatement of Nuisances
        including "Rubbish, refuse, unsightly accumulations of dirt, sand, and gravel, and
        the like on parkways, sidewalks, streets or private property in the City", "Tangible
        personal property not intended for outdoor use (including but not limited to broken
        or discarded furniture, household equipment and furnishings, garbage cans, or
        shopping carts) which is stored on property so as to be visible from a public street
        or the vicinity of the property", "Buildings with windows and doors intended to be
        glazed which contain broken glass or no glass at all. Plywood or other material
        used to cover such window and door space for more than two weeks, if permitted
        under this code, shall be painted in a color or colors compatible with the
        remainder of the building," etc. 3 Chapter 6 also covers the enforcement of these
        ordinances, all of which can help prevent physical deterioration due to any long-
        term closures of retail spaces. If properties require nuisance abatement there are
        controls in place to provide this abatement.

        During the fieldwork conducted in October, 2011, with periodic subsequent field
        visits throughout 2012, there were only a few visible signs of litter, graffiti, weeds,
        or rubbish associated with existing commercial nodes in the Project's market area,
        most notably at the periphery of some of the nodes, such as along the southern
        portion of Temescal/Koreatown. Thus, ALH Economics concludes that existing
        measures to maintain private commercial property in good condition in the market
        area are generally effective and will serve to help preclude the potential for urban
        decay and deterioration in the event any existing retailers in the market area close
        following the operations of the Project and other cumulative retail projects.

Based upon these findings, ALH Economics concludes that the Rockridge Safeway expansion
Project and the identified cumulative projects will not cause or contribute to urban decay.


2
  City of Oakland Municipal Code 15.08.110, "Abatement of Violations,"
http://library.municode.com/index.aspx?clientid=16308&stateid=5&statename=california (accessed
November 18, 2011).
3
  City of Piedmont Municipal Code, "Chapter 6 Abatement of Nuisances," pages 6-2, 6-3, and 6-4
http://www.ci.piedmont.ca.us/html/city_code/pdf/chapter6.pdf (accessed July 5, 2012).



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                9                        ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                       II. INTRODUCTION
STUDY BACKGROUND


Safeway, Inc. is seeking to expand the existing Safeway neighborhood grocery store and shopping
center at the intersection of Pleasant Valley Avenue/51st Street and Broadway in Oakland,
California. In the process, Safeway plans to relocate the store on the site, reposition the store into a
Lifestyle store, and increase the amount of ground floor retail and restaurant space as part of the
total development program (the "Project"). This project is part of Safeway's plan nationwide to
redevelop existing stores into Lifestyle stores, with 85% of the process complete throughout the
chain. A hallmark of Lifestyle stores is the sale of expanded perishable options, the availability of
greater health-oriented options, and an earth-toned décor package that includes custom flooring
and unique display features.

The current Safeway store is 47,975 square feet. According to Safeway's public reports, the
average Safeway store size is 46,700 square feet. Thus, the existing Rockridge store is a bit larger
relative to the average Safeway store. With the planned expansion the store will increase to 65,013
square feet. The existing shopping center includes an 87,200-square-foot CVS store and 50,269
square feet of retail and non-retail. The Project includes the demolition of the CVS Store and the
addition of new commercial space comprising retail, office, and common space; equating net new
commercial and common space of 120,034 square feet.

An Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the Project is being prepared and coordinated by
Lamphier-Gregory, an environmental consulting firm, for the City of Oakland. To support this
effort and comply with the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"), ALH Urban & Regional
Economics ("ALH Economics") was asked to prepare findings regarding the potential for the Project
to cause or contribute to urban decay. The decision by the Fifth District Court of Appeal in
Bakersfield Citizens for Local Control v. The City of Bakersfield indicated that CEQA requires a lead
agency to consider and analyze the potential for the introduction of planned retailers to result in
adverse physical impacts on the environment by causing a chain reaction of store closures and
long-term vacancies, otherwise referred to as a condition of "urban decay." This analysis is not
required for all projects subject to CEQA, but only projects where there is the perceived potential
for urban decay to result.

This study addresses the concerns voiced in the Bakersfield decision by considering the potential
impact of the Project in conjunction with the introduction of other retail developments in the
Project's identified market area. The key indicator from a CEQA perspective is impacts on the
existing physical environment, which in the context of an urban decay analysis includes existing
stores and commercial real estate conditions, as measured by the current baseline. The Notice of
Preparation (NOP) for the EIR was released in 2009. To best reflect more current market conditions
and take into account more recent information, the year 2011 comprises the baseline reflected by
existing conditions discussed in this report.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                10                        ALH Urban & Regional Economics
STUDY TASKS

ALH Economics engaged in numerous tasks to complete this assignment. These tasks included the
following:

    ·   Identified the Project's market area, i.e., the area from which the majority of Project
        consumers are anticipated to originate;
    ·   Conducted fieldwork to review the Project site and evaluate existing market conditions;
    ·   Estimated the planned Project's sales;
    ·   Estimated market area retail sales;
    ·   Conducted retail sales leakage analyses for the Project's market area;
    ·   Estimated demand generated by households added to the market area by the time the
        Project is developed;
    ·   Estimated the Project's impacts on existing relevant retailers;
    ·   Identified planned retail projects in the market area and other relevant areas;
    ·   Assessed the cumulative impacts of planned retail projects in the market area and other
        relevant areas; and
    ·   Assessed the extent to which operations of the Project and the cumulative projects may or
        may not contribute to urban decay.

The findings pertaining to these tasks are reviewed and summarized in this report, with analytical
findings presented in the exhibits in Appendices A and B.

STUDY RESOURCES AND REPORT ORGANIZATION

Study Resources

Many resources were relied upon for this study. This included information provided by Lamphier-
Gregory, the Planning and Economic Development Departments in the cities of Oakland,
Piedmont, Emeryville, and Berkeley, and individuals engaged in commercial real estate familiar
with the area's retail market. Information about planned retail projects was obtained from project
developers or select media outlets, such as the San Francisco Business Journal. Detailed Oakland
retail market data were generated from Costar, a commercial real estate information company,
and provided by CB Richard Ellis.

Additional study resources included customer origin data provided by Safeway, the 2010 U.S.
Census, the Association of Bay Area Governments, the California State Board of Equalization,
Claritas, a national provider of economic and demographic data, and Neilson Trade Dimensions.
Some retail sales data were provided by Retail MAXIM's Alternative Retail Risk analysis for
Alternative Capital, July 2011. Inflationary adjustments were prepared based upon the U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics' Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers in the Western U.S. Region. The
report "Existing Retail Sector Performance" prepared for the Oakland Community Economic
Development Agency in March 2008 by Conley Consulting Group was relied upon for information
about Oakland's retail shopping nodes. All sources are cited as relevant in the study exhibits.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis              11                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Report Organization

This report includes 9 chapters, as follows:

    I. Executive Summary
    II. Introduction
    III. Projected Project Sales
    IV. Market Area Definition
    V. Retail Sales Base Characterization
    VI. Project Sales Impacts
    VII. Food Store Impacts
    VIII. Cumulative Project Impacts
    IX. Urban Decay Determination

This report is subject to the appended Assumptions and General Limiting Conditions.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                 12                   ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                 III. PROJECTED PROJECT SALES

A description of the planned Rockridge Safeway expansion Project and ALH Economics' estimates of
the total retail sales generated by the Project are presented below, including sales generated by retail
category. This estimate is necessary to facilitate analysis of the Project's urban decay impacts.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The Rockridge Safeway expansion Project is located at the intersection of Pleasant Valley Avenue/51st
Street and Broadway in Oakland, California. The Project site includes an existing Safeway store and
neighborhood shopping center that will be expanded.

The existing Safeway store totals 47,975 square feet. Upon relocation and expansion, the store will
include 65,013 square feet, reflecting a net increase of 17,038 square feet. In addition to the Safeway
store redevelopment, the Project will include the demolition of an existing 87,220-square-foot CVS
store and the development of an additional net new 257,523 square feet of commercial and common
space. This 257,523 net new square feet of commercial and common space will comprise restaurant
space, additional retail space, and non-retail and common space. In all, there will be approximately
108,000 total square feet of net new commercial space, plus additional net new common space.

The additional tenants, who have not yet been identified, will occupy two-story office above retail
space, and new street-facing retail buildings with parking behind and additional roof-top parking as
part of the Project. This main entrance will front on Pleasant Valley Avenue, along the edge of the
Project site with an additional entrance along Broadway. All existing property structures will be
demolished prior to the development of the new store and the phased development of additional
commercial spaces. Given planned phasing of the demolition and construction the Safeway store is
anticipated to be open and available to customers throughout the construction period.

The Project's existing and proposed distribution of retail square footage is presented in Exhibit 1. This
exhibit indicates current developed square footage of 185,464 square feet, including the 47,975-
square-foot Safeway store and 137,489 square feet of commercial space. With the planned Safeway
store expansion to 65,013 square feet and the 120,034 square feet for restaurant and other retail
space the Project's net change in building area is 137,072 square feet.

The existing Safeway store totals 47,975 square feet. Upon relocation and expansion, the store will
include 65,013 square feet, reflecting a net increase of 17,038 square feet. In addition to the Safeway
store redevelopment, the Project will include the demolition of an existing 87,220-square-foot CVS
store and the development of an additional net new 257,523 square feet of commercial and common
space. This 257,523 net new square feet of commercial and common space will comprise restaurant
space, additional retail space, and non-retail and common space. In all, there will be approximately
108,000 total square feet of net new commercial space, plus additional net new common space.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     13                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
PROJECTED SAFEWAY AND OTHER PROJECT SALES

Approach

The timeframe of the Safeway expansion is undetermined, depending upon the pace and timing of
the environmental and approvals process for the Project. For analytical purposes, this study assumes
the Project will be fully operational by 2015, with 2015 comprising the first full year of complete
Project operations. To facilitate the study, however, the analysis is conducted assuming sales in year
2011 dollars. Most importantly, selection of 2011 dollars also supports analysis of the Project in
comparison to another proposed Safeway expansion project at the College & Claremont store, with
the environmental review for this project already underway, including a comparable urban decay
analysis. Stabilized sales are not expected to occur the first year of store operations, but rather the
second or third year, which is typical of new retail operations. However, for simplicity, this analysis
conservatively assumes stabilized sales are achieved during the first full year of operations.

Store sales projections were prepared differently by type of retail tenant. Two methods were employed,
one for the Safeway store and one for all other retail tenants.

Safeway Store Sales. A sales projection for the expanded Safeway store was developed by ALH
Economics based upon examination of a compilation of grocery store sales performance data
prepared by Nielson Trade Dimensions, a vendor that provides individual store weekly sales estimates
as well as each store's estimated sales selling area. ALH Economics reviewed the Trade Dimensions
data specifically relative to Safeway store performance in the general Oakland area. This examination
indicated that Safeway stores in the area typically outperform Safeway and average grocery industry
performance. 4 Review of Safeway annual reports indicates that in 2010, the average Safeway store
achieved sales totaling $465 per square foot. 5 In 2011, industry average performance is estimated to
be about $500. 6 Based upon the Trade Dimensions data findings, and an understanding that Lifestyle
stores typically enjoy high sales performance, however, ALH Economics assumes the Safeway
expansion space will achieve sales in excess of these average figures. This higher figure is estimated
at $800 per square foot. The Safeway store is assumed to achieve incremental sales totaling $13.6
million a year (see Exhibit 2).

For the purpose of this study, ALH Economics obtained information about select grocery store
performance in and around the Project's market area. These data were obtained from Nielsen Trade
Dimensions, which provides individual store weekly sales estimates as well as each store's estimated
sales selling area. From these data, generalized analysis can be conducted to assess the relative sales
performance of the stores. Nielsen's Terms of Use for the Trade Dimensions data prevent publishing
individual store performance information. However, information about store performance in general
and in relation to other stores can be divulged.

All Other Retail Store Sales. In order to estimate the annual sales performance of the 120,034
square feet of additional restaurant and retail space, ALH Economics developed assumptions

4
  Nielsen's Terms of Use for the Trade Dimensions data prevent publishing individual store performance
information. Therefore, the report refers to generalities about relative food store performance.
5
   Calculation derived from information included in Safeway's 2010 Annual report and 2010 10-K
prepared for the SEC. Safeway sales in 2010 excluding fuel and other totaled $36,676.2 million. Total
retail square footage at year end 2010 was 79.2 million square feet. This equates to a sales equivalent of
$463 per square foot.
6
  See Exhibit B-1, which presents industry average figures.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     14                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
regarding the type of tenant likely to occupy the space and then corresponding sales per square foot
figures. Retail tenants for the balance of the retail space have not yet been determined. For the
composition of this space, ALH Economics developed working assumptions based upon professional
judgment and experience in the retail industry. The assumptions include the following distributions by
type of retail space: 15% each in home furnishings & appliances and general merchandise, 20%
clothing & clothing accessories, and 50% other retail. The other retail category includes gifts, books,
jewelry, and florists, among others. This generalized mix is deemed feasible given the nature of other
retailers located along the Pleasant Valley Avenue/51st Street and Broadway corridors and throughout
nearby major retail commercial nodes.

The sales per square foot figures are based on information available from Retail MAXIM's "Alternative
Retail Risk Analysis for Alternative Capital," July, 2011. The Retail MAXIM publication provides
average sales per square foot figures for many national retailers and aggregates the data by specific
retail categories. ALH Economics has been tracking Retail Maxim's store performance estimates since
2003, with a data trend inclusive of sales performance figures from 2003, 2005, 2007, 2009, and
2010. Averaging these figures and inflation adjusting is believed to provide a reasonable estimate of
potential store sales performance for relevant categories (see Exhibit B-1). While specific Project
restaurant operations and retailers have not been identified, the retail spaces were matched to
categories included in the Retail Maxim retail survey. The resulting sales figures include the following:

    ·   $449 per square foot for the restaurant space, reflective of the Retail Maxim restaurant
        category;
    ·   $158 per square foot for the CVS store space. CVS nationally performs at approximately
        $800 per square foot according to Retail Maxim; however, when this store was fully utilized, it
        served more the function of a general merchandise store like Target than a pharmacy like
        most CVS or Walgreen stores. Moreover, the store has been contracting its sales area pending
        its potential demolition. Therefore, the analysis conservatively assumes sales performance of
        $158 per square foot comparable to an average of $315 per square foot spread across one-
        half the store area. The $315 per square foot rate is generally comparable to average Target
        store performance cited in Exhibit B-1;
    ·   $327 per square foot for the portion of the retail space allocated to home furnishings &
        appliances, reflective of the Retail Maxim estimate for the domestics category;
    ·   $434 per square foot for the portion of the retail space allocated to apparel, reflective of the
        Retail Maxim estimate for a range of apparel retailers;
    ·   $283 per square foot for the portion of the retail space allocated to general merchandise,
        reflective of the Retail Maxim estimate for department stores;
    ·   $357 per square foot for the portion of the retail space allocated to other retail, reflective of
        the Retail Maxim estimate for a range of categories that correspond with other retail; and
    ·   There are no competitive retail sales associated with the non-retail services uses.

All of the sales per square foot assumptions are presented in Exhibit 2, with additional back up data in
Exhibit B-1.

Projected Project Sales

Total Projected Store Sales. The estimate of Safeway expansion, restaurant, and other retail store
sales is documented in Exhibit 2. The total Project sales in 2011 dollars are estimated at $66.1
million. This equates to $482 in average sales per square foot including the square footage for the
non-retail services uses.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     15                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Projected Market Area Project Sales. Materials published by major industry organizations support
that a retail store's trade area generally supplies 70% to 90% of the store's sales, while the remaining
10% to 30% of sales are attributed to consumers residing outside of the store's market area. In its
Shopping Center Development Handbook, Third Edition, the Urban Land Institute (ULI) states the
following:

        "A site generally has a primary and a secondary trade area, and it might have a tertiary area.
        The primary trade area should generally supply 70 to 80 percent of the sales generated by the
        site. These boundaries are set by geographical and psychological obstacles." 7

ULI is a nonprofit research and education organization representing the entire spectrum of land use
and real estate development disciplines. Among real estate, retail, and economic development
professionals, this organization is considered a preeminent educational forum.

Information published by the International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC), a trade association
for the shopping center industry, also provides instructional information about market area definitions.
In the recent publication Developing Successful Retail in Secondary & Rural Markets, the ICSC says:

        "A trade area is the geographic market that you will be offering to potential retailers as a
        consumer market. ... Defining a retail trade area is an art and a science. In general, a trade
        area should reflect the geography from which 75-90 percent of retail sales are generated.
        Different stores can have different trade areas based on their individual drawing power and
        the competitive market context." 8

For the purpose of this study Safeway made available customer sales data for the Rockridge store.
These data included point in time sales generated by shoppers on a zip code basis. From these data,
it was possible to determine the zip code areas that generate the greatest level of support for the
existing Safeway store at Pleasant Valley Avenue/51st Street and Broadway. Analysis of these data
indicated that the zip codes generating the greatest store sales collectively contribute to approximately
80% of store sales. Based on this information it is assumed that 20% of the Project's sales will be
attributed to consumers residing outside of the Project's market area, including consumers who work
near the site but live elsewhere and destination shoppers originating from a widely dispersed area. It
is not possible to identify the stores that these shoppers would otherwise frequent and accordingly
assess their urban decay impacts.

Pursuant to the 80% market area sales assumption, the estimated Project sales originating from
market area residents is $52.9 million (see Exhibit 2), with $10.9 million for the Safeway store and
$42.0 million for the other commercial spaces. This is the sales figure that is central to the urban
decay analysis, as it comprises Project demand generated by market area residents. These are the
sales that have the potential to be diverted away from other retailers in the market area, and possibly
beyond, and thus are the sales of interest in determining the risk of potential store closures that could
ultimately lead to deterioration and decay.




7
 Shopping Center Development Handbook, Third Edition, Urban Land Institute, 1999, page 44.
8
 Developing Successful Retail in Secondary & Rural Markets, International Council of Shopping Centers in
cooperation with National Association of Counties, 2007, page 7.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     16                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Projected Sales by Category

Retail Sales Categories. It is necessary to allocate the Project's sales into appropriate retail
categories to determine the potential impact on those specific categories. Subsequent analysis in this
report compares Project sales to estimated market area sales in store categories used by
governmental data sources, facilitating a comparison between retail supply and demand. Accordingly,
the retail categories used to analyze the Project's sales match the categories used to estimate relevant
market area sales.

The new sales generated by the Project will be spread across only a few merchandising categories due
to the Project's nature and relatively small size. However, other merchandising categories also have
relevancy to the study to facilitate characterization of the retail base. This study uses the retail
categories as defined by the State of California Board of Equalization ("BOE"), which reports taxable
sales by retail category for cities and counties. To maximize the use of these data it is important to use
the BOE's defined retail sales categories for analytical purposes. Accordingly, ALH Economics'
analysis is benchmarked to these categories and the sales reported by the BOE. These categories, as
typically reported for cities, include the following:

        Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers
        Home Furnishings & Appliances
        Building Materials & Garden Equipment
        Food & Beverage Stores
        Gasoline Stations
        Clothing & Clothing Accessories
        General Merchandise Stores
        Food Services & Drinking Places (Restaurants)
        "Other Retail" Group 9

Safeway Sales Distribution by Category. The Safeway's sales will be reported by the BOE in the
food & beverage stores category. The impact of these sales is most appropriately analyzed relative to
all the retail categories that include stores competitive with or complementary to the Safeway.

Additional Retail Space Sales by Category. The additional 120,034 square feet of space includes
the area designated for restaurant space and additional retail and non-retail space with undetermined
tenants. As cited earlier, the analysis assumes this additional space will be allocated to 14,921 square
feet of restaurant space, a decrease of (87,220) square feet of other retail for the CVS store, and the
remaining 105,113 square feet will be distinguished as 15% each in home furnishings & appliances
and general merchandise, 20% clothing & clothing accessories, and 50% other retail. Based on these
assumptions, the market area resident sales generated for this portion of the Project will comprise
$5.4 million in restaurant sales, a decrease of ($11.0) million in other retail sales, $6.5 million in
home furnishings & appliances, $11.6 million in clothing & clothing accessories sales, $5.7 million in
general merchandise sales, and $23.8 million in other retail sales.

Distributed Sales. Table 1 below allocates sales from the Safeway and the other Project retail and
sums the total sales of the Project by BOE retail category. This is for the 80% share of sales generated
by market area residents, totaling $52.9 million.

9
  Other retail stores include a wide range of retailers, such as gift shops, pet supplies, office supplies,
sporting goods, book stores, florists, and gifts.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                      17                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                                    Table 1
                     Estimated Expanded Rockridge Safeway Project Sales by Retail Category (1)
                                                 2011 Dollars

                                                                                Estimated Retail
          Retail Category                                                        Sales Volume        Percent
          Motor Vehicles & Parts                                                            $0           0.0%
          Home Furnishings & Appliances                                             $6,549,015          12.4%
          Building Materials & Garden Equip.                                                $0           0.0%
          Food & Beverage Stores                                                   $10,904,320          20.6%
          Clothing & Clothing Accessories                                          $11,589,188          21.9%
          General Merchandise                                                       $5,658,156          10.7%
          Food Services & Drinking Places                                           $5,356,823          10.1%
          Other Retail Group                                                       $12,846,768          24.3%
            Total                                                                  $52,904,271         100.0%
          (1) Based on California Board of Equalization retail categories.
          Sources: Exhibit 2; and ALH Urban & Regional Economics.

As noted above, the Project is estimated to capture $52.9 million in sales generated by market area
residents. The sales distribution will include 20.6% in the food & beverage stores category, 24.3% in
the other retail group, 21.9% in clothing & clothing accessories group (apparel), 12.4% in the home
furnishings & appliances category, 10.7% in general merchandise, and 10.1% in the food services &
drinking places (restaurant) group.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                            18                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                 IV. MARKET AREA DEFINITION

This report chapter discusses the approach to examining the Project's market area, which is the area
from which the majority of shoppers are anticipated to originate. This chapter defines the Project's
anticipated market area based on this approach and provides information regarding locations of
major retail corridors and nodes within the market area, including the location of other grocery stores.

APPROACH

ALH Economics defined a market area for the Project for the purpose of analyzing the prospective
urban decay impacts. The market area definition is based on the principle that most consumers will
travel to the shopping destination most convenient to their homes given the type of goods available. A
market area is the geographic area from which the majority of a retail shopping center's demand is
anticipated to originate. Several tasks were completed to identify the market area, foremost of which
included mapping the location of the Project relative to other Safeway stores, especially existing or
planned Lifestyle stores, and consideration of consumer origin data provided by Safeway.

MARKET AREA DESCRIPTION AND BOUNDARIES

ALH Economics conducted research to develop an estimate of the market area for the Project, i.e., the
area from which the majority of shoppers will originate. Because of the Project's location in the
northern area within the City of Oakland, both Oakland and City of Piedmont residents are assumed
to comprise a strong consumer base for the Project.

As a starting point for the market area definition ALH Economics reviewed detailed Safeway customer
data provided by zip code (zip + four). This included point-in-time data for shoppers by residential
location. ALH Economics rolled up all the zip + four areas into just the zip codes to comprise a more
manageable database, indicating the percent of store shoppers by zip code. The zip codes that
encompassed approximately 80% of the Safeway shoppers were then mapped to observe their
geographical locations and distribution. Because zip codes are large and irregularly shaped, ALH
Economics superimposed the zip codes over a census tract map to identify the census tracts that would
best comprise the market area for the Project. An additional benefit is the greater ability to obtain and
analyze data at the census tract level while retaining the potential for replication by interested parties.

Once the zip codes and census tracts were superimposed, ALH Economics refined the edges of the
market area based on the location of other Safeway stores, especially existing and planned Lifestyle
stores. This refinement is based upon the assumption that consumers will shop at the Safeway store
closest to their home, especially other Lifestyle or otherwise updated and expanded stores. Relative to
the existing and planned Safeway Lifestyle stores to the north of the Project site, a number of
intersections throughout portions of Oakland were identified for research purposes. The market area's
northern boundary was defined based on customer proximity and the location of the Safeway store at
College & Claremont avenues in Oakland, which is also in the process of a planned expansion, with
environmental documents under public review. There is a geographical area north of the Rockridge
Safeway store within which residents are largely equidistant from the Rockridge and College &
Claremont stores. The Safeway consumer data indicate that residents in this area shop at both stores.
Therefore, the area north of the Project site up to the location of the College & Claremont store is
considered part of the Project market area. This area generally extends along the border between the
cities of Oakland and Berkeley.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                      19                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
The eastern, southern, and western boundaries of the market area were defined largely based on the
consumer shopping data provided by Safeway. The eastern edge of the market area corresponds with
the census tracts that comprise the western portions from Highway 13 of zip codes 94618 and 94611,
which are the zip codes that generate the greatest level of shoppers for the Rockridge Safeway store.
For the southern and western boundaries the intersections were tested using mapping software to
determine which Safeway store was closest in proximity and involved the shortest travel time. The
stores used for this analysis included the Safeway stores located at the intersections of Mountain
Boulevard and Moraga Avenue, Grand and Weldon avenues, and Fruitvale Avenue and MacArthur
Boulevard in Oakland. The testing results identified the southern and western boundaries of the
market area, which generally comprise Park Boulevard on the south and Interstate 580 to Grand
Avenue and then along San Pablo Avenue following the border between Oakland and Emeryville on
the west. These boundaries can be seen in Exhibit 3. In addition, Exhibit 4 identifies the area that is
common to the market area for both the Rockridge Safeway store and the College & Claremont
Safeway store. As can be seen, this common area is a thin band of geography in Oakland.

As referenced above, the market area geography was defined based on aggregations of census
tracts. The advantage of using census tracts is that the market area definition is easily defined, easily
replicable, and key demographic estimates and projections are readily available in this format. The
market area's census tracts are listed in Exhibit B-2. The census tracts in the portion of the market area
in common with the College & Claremont Safeway store are listed in Exhibit B-3. For data collection
purposes it was necessary to use both 2000 and 2010 census tract definitions. In most cases the
census tracts are the same but there are some slight variations due to census tract splits or
aggregations between the decennial censuses.

KEY MARKET AREA SHOPPING CORRIDORS

Identification and Classification of Shopping Nodes

In 2008 the City of Oakland engaged a consulting team to prepare a Retail Enhancement Strategy. 10
As part of this strategy, over 50 constituent commercial nodes were identified throughout the City of
Oakland. These nodes were classified into eight typologies, including the following:

     ·   small neighborhood
     ·   grocery
     ·   grocery + restaurant
     ·   grocery, restaurant + comparison
     ·   entertainment
     ·   box comparison
     ·   homebound intercept
     ·   non-retail

In addition to this typology, each of the more than 50 nodes were assessed on a four-point scale,
including functioning well, needing improvement, opportunity for expansion, recommended for
repositioning.

10
  See "Existing Retail Sector Performance," a component of the Oakland Retail Enhancement Strategy,
prepared for Oakland Community Economic Development Agency, March 2008, Conley Consulting
Group.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     20                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Of the more than 50 nodes included in the Retail Enhancement Strategy, ALH Economics estimates
that approximately 14 are fully or partially included in the Rockridge Safeway market area. These
areas were representative of three of the identified commercial classifications. These areas, their
consultant classifications, and general geographical definitions, are as follows:

Grocery, Restaurant + Comparison

     ·   51st/Broadway, located along Broadway between 51st Street and College Avenue, and
         primarily including the Rockridge Safeway expansion site
     ·   Broadway Auto Row (aka Broadway-Valdez), located on Broadway between Grand Avenue
         and 42nd Street 11
     ·   Piedmont Avenue, located between Broadway and Grand Avenue near the Piedmont border
     ·   Rockridge, located along College Avenue extending from Broadway to the City of Berkeley
         border at Ashby Avenue
     ·   Temescal/Koreatown, located on Telegraph Avenue from W. Macarthur Boulevard to just
         north of 51st Street
     ·   Lakeshore, located on Lakeshore Avenue and along Macarthur Boulevard up to Grand
         Avenue

Grocery + Restaurant

     ·   Grand Avenue/Grand Lake, located along Grand Avenue between I-580 and the City of
         Piedmont
     ·   Northgate/Koreatown, situated along Telegraph Avenue generally between Grand Avenue
         and West Macarthur Boulevard, and several blocks along Grand Avenue to the east

Small Neighborhood

     ·   Upper Broadway/Oakland Tech, located between approximately 40th Street on Broadway and
         51st Street
     ·   Grand Avenue ­ Adams Point, located along Grand Avenue west of I-580
     ·   North Oakland, located along Telegraph Avenue roughly between 62nd Street and Woolsey
     ·   San Pablo, extending along San Pablo Avenue between West Grand Avenue and West
         MacArthur Boulevard, just before the Oakland-Emeryville border
     ·   Golden Gate, located on San Pablo Avenue between Stanford Avenue and approximately
         Alcatraz
     ·   Glenview, located on Park Boulevard between Highway 13 and I-580




11
   This node was not included in the 2008 consultant study, but is an established commercial node in
Oakland.      The     street    definition  was      obtained      from      the    City's   website,
http://www.shopoakland.com/districts/broadway-auto.html.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                   21                    ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Grocery, Restaurant + Comparison Shopping Areas

Of the 14 areas, the 2008 consultant study determined that several were functioning well, including
Piedmont Avenue, Rockridge, and Lakeshore, all of which have a strong mix of retail tenants,
including some national tenants along Lakeshore. Notably, each of these areas comprises a
pedestrian-oriented shopping district characterized by grocery, restaurant, and comparison shopping
opportunities, surrounded by relatively affluent households. Much of the available comparison
shopping includes apparel, housewares, and gifts. These areas are among the City of Oakland's most
popular shopping districts. Accordingly, all three of these areas have strong demand for retail space,
with limited to no vacancies, and rapid absorption when vacancies do occur. All three of these
shopping districts have major grocery store tenants, such as Safeway, Trader Joe's, and Piedmont
Grocery, as well as other smaller niche food store tenants. In addition, while not classified as an
entertainment district, Piedmont Avenue also includes the Piedmont Movie Theatre.

The three other grocery, restaurant + comparison shopping districts include the Temescal/Koreatown
area, the 51st/Broadway area that includes the Rockridge Safeway Project site, and Broadway Auto
Row. The Temescal/Koreatown node transitions into the Koreatown district, with the majority of this
node more widely known as just Temescal. At the time of the 2008 consultant study this node was
deemed an expansion opportunity area. Since the completion of that study, this area has indeed seen
expansion, with numerous coffee houses, restaurants, and comparison shopping stores entering the
area, such as Baby World (relocated from Rockridge) and Tip Top Bicycle Shop. Recent reinvestment
in the area occurred through the rebuilding of the existing McDonald's restaurant in this area. The
greatest expansion opportunities in this node, however, are in the southern section, which includes
several vacant commercial properties, including one boarded up property with visible fire damage.
Notably, while the consultant study classified this area as a grocery area, there are no major grocery
stores in this area.

The 51st/Broadway area that includes the Rockridge Safeway site was deemed a "valuable retail
enhancement opportunity" for the City of Oakland, as a means of enhancing and protecting the City's
overall retail sector. 12 This is a relatively small node, dominated by the Rockridge Shopping Center
anchored by the Safeway, which the consultant study said was "well located to serve affluent
neighborhoods in Oakland and Piedmont." 13 There is one relatively long-term vacancy in this area,
which is the former Poppy Fabric store located across Broadway from the Shopping Center and an
adjoining vacant parcel. Redevelopment of the Rockridge Shopping Center could well serve as a
catalyst for future redevelopment or retail backfilling of these properties.

Finally, the Broadway Auto Row area has long been an area of transition and study in the City of
Oakland. Historically dominated by many of the region's car dealerships and automotive repair
shops, the City of Oakland has periodically revisited the repositioning potential of this area, which
includes car dealerships, a discount grocery store, religious institutions, and other vacant or
underutilized commercial properties. The City is currently preparing a Specific Plan for the area that
focuses on revitalizing the area into a mixed use district linking Downtown Oakland with
neighborhood centers to the north and east. Subject to environmental review, the plan could provide a
prescription for long-term revitalization of this area.
12
   "Existing Retail Sector Performance," Conley Consulting Group, March 2008, Appendix B: Node Profiles,
page 57.
13
   Ibid.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                    22                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Grocery + Restaurant Shopping Areas

The 2008 consultant study classified two market area retail nodes as grocery + restaurant nodes.
These are Grand Avenue/Grand Lake and Northgate/Koreatown. The Grand Avenue/Grand Lake
area is a strong commercial node, anchored by Safeway and Ace Hardware, but including many
other comparison goods retailers and restaurants, including Walden Books, Grand Bakery, and the
Grand Lake Theater. This area was deemed an area in need of enhancement, in large part because
of its mixed auto and pedestrian orientation, with the auto-oriented anchors located somewhat distant
from the more pedestrian and comparison-shopping locations closer to the theater. Regardless, this
area exemplifies a strong retail market, with few vacancies, with only one building inclusive of three
small storefronts comprising a notable vacancy. Other smaller vacancies occur from time to time, but
are typically absorbed within a reasonable period of time.

The Northgate/Koreatown area is a transitional area in Oakland. This area has a range of uses
including medical (i.e., the edge of Oakland's Pill Hill), residential, commercial, personal services,
and business services, such as a State Farm insurance office, an adult store, hair salon and supplies,
and a plating business. The area is home to a very popular ethnic grocery store, Koreana Plaza
Market, and numerous other ethnic grocery stores and restaurants. There are also many other
Korean-owned and oriented businesses throughout the area. Many of the properties in this area are
not well maintained, and the area is characterized by more vacant commercial properties than any of
the preceding shopping districts. These vacancies appear moderately well-maintained, but in general
the area could benefit from reinvestment. The 2008 consultant study deemed this an area for
expansion, with the potential for new residential development to help support retail sales in
convenience goods and restaurant establishments.

Small Neighborhood Shopping Areas

The market area has numerous small neighborhood shopping districts that are primarily oriented
toward serving the immediate neighborhood. Some of these shopping districts have small food
markets, but none have any larger food stores. Depending upon the district there are a wide variety of
retail uses, such as fast food restaurants, auto parts, pet food store, gyms, spice shop, window
coverings, apparel, and sit-down restaurants. The retail market conditions in these shopping areas are
mixed, ranging from strong conditions with well-maintained properties such as in Glenview to poorer
conditions with more chronic vacancies, such as the Upper Broadway/Oakland Tech area located
near the Rockridge Safeway Project site.

Summary

In summary there is a wide variety of retail offerings within the Rockridge Safeway market area. The
major grocery stores and food stores are generally located along corridors with strong real estate
market conditions and well-kept commercial properties. The shopping districts with the greatest
quantity of vacancies and less well-maintained properties generally do not have any major grocery or
food stores, and thus are unlikely to risk exacerbation of existing real estate conditions following
completion of the Rockridge Safeway Project. Instead, by bringing more shoppers to the area the
Project could serve as a catalyst for improvement of some of the nearby shopping districts, such as the
Upper Broadway/Oakland Tech area and the former Poppy Fabrics property within the Project's
51st/Broadway area.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                    23                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                         V. RETAIL SALES BASE CHARACTERIZATION

This chapter analyzes the retail sales leakage and attraction profile of the Project's market area. The
analysis focuses on the extent to which the market area captures resident household spending as well
as sales generated from outside the area. This analysis provides a characterization of the sales
performance of the retail sales base, an estimate of the size of the sales base, and an estimate of
existing demand for retail. ALH Economics conducts this analysis as a building block towards
determining the extent to which the Project may or may not divert sales away from existing market
area retailers.

METHODOLOGY

Approach

ALH Economics uses a retail model that estimates retail spending potential for an area based upon
household counts, income, and consumer spending patterns. The model then computes the extent to
which the area is or is not capturing this spending potential based upon taxable sales data published
by the State of California Board of Equalization (BOE) or provided by local government municipal tax
consultants. This analysis can be most readily conducted for cities, groupings of cities, or counties,
consistent with the geographies reported by the BOE.

For any study area, retail categories in which spending by locals is not fully captured are called
"leakage" categories, while retail categories in which more sales are captured than are generated by
residents are called "attraction" categories. This type of study is generically called a retail demand,
sales attraction, and spending leakage analysis. Generally, attraction categories signal particular
strengths of a retail market while leakage categories signal particular weaknesses. ALH Economics'
model, as well as variations developed by other urban economic and real estate consultants,
compares projected spending to actual sales.

For the purpose of generating a Retail Demand, Sales Attraction, and Spending Leakage Analysis for
the Project's market area, ALH Economics obtained taxable retail sales data for mid-2009 through
mid-2010 as reported by the BOE and adjusted the taxable sales to reflect total, more current sales.
These were the most recent BOE data available at the time the study was conducted. Using the retail
sales data, combined with household counts estimated by the U.S. Census for the cities and market
area census tracts, household projections prepared by the Association of Bay Area Governments
(ABAG), and income estimates provided by Claritas, Inc., ALH Economics conducted a Retail Demand,
Sales Attraction, and Spending Leakage Analysis. This analysis compared total estimated household
spending to actual retail sales in the market area. Sales estimates for the market area were prepared
based on the available citywide BOE data for Oakland and Piedmont, which were then benchmarked
to retail sales estimates prepared by Claritas for the portion of the market area not coincident with
existing city boundaries.

Demographic Characteristics

ALH Economics' Retail Demand, Sales Attraction, and Spending Leakage Analysis requires household
count and average household income inputs for the area of analysis. Demographic data assumptions
for the market area are presented in Exhibit 5. The main assumption relative to the Retail Demand,
Sales Attraction, and Spending Leakage Analysis is estimated households for 2010. This is the



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                    24                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
timeframe that best approximates the time period measured by the available BOE retail sales data.
Based on the aggregations of census tracts identified in Exhibit B-2, the market area household count
in 2010 totaled 53,546. The household count in the portion of the market area that overlaps with the
estimated market area of the Rockridge Safeway store is 15,060, or approximately 28% of the
customer base. While not reflected on Exhibit 5, the average household income for the market area in
2010 was an estimated $90,660.

To the best of ALH Economics' knowledge, there are no current household growth projections
available for Oakland, Piedmont, or portions thereof benchmarked to the 2010 census. As an
approximation of future growth projections, however, ALH Economics applied the latest ABAG census
tract household growth rates prepared in 2009 to the relevant census tracts to develop potential
growth projections for the market area. The ABAG growth rates were applied to the 2010 census data
to develop a prospective pattern of future growth. The results indicate the potential for the market
area household count to increase from 54,743 in 2012, the current timeframe, to 56,588 in 2015, or
growth of 1,845 households (See Exhibit 5, rounded). ALH Economics believes this is a high estimate,
but at least indicates a prospective pattern of growth.

MARKET AREA RETAIL SALES BASE

ALH Economics estimated sales for the market area by utilizing city BOE data, with adjustments based
on benchmarked retail sales data estimated by Claritas in order to customize the data to the market
area. BOE publishes taxable sales figures for counties and major cities; its most recent full-year
taxable sales figures at the time this study was conducted were for 2009, with additional quarterly
data available through 2nd quarter 2010. As a base for estimating the market area's retail sales base,
ALH Economics used BOE's figures for cities located in the market area as published in its publication
"Taxable Sales in California" for third quarter 2009 through second quarter 2010.

Because BOE presents data corresponding with only taxable sales, ALH Economics included
adjustments to gross the estimated sales up to total sales. This involved sales adjustments for non-
taxable sales for food, pharmacy, and a portion of general merchandise store sales that include food
sales. ALH Economics estimates that 70% of food store sales and 67% of drug store sales are non-
taxable based on discussions with the BOE and other industry research, including U.S. Census
publications. In addition, sales of grocery items at non-drug store general merchandise stores are
non-taxable and are estimated at 20% of sales for this subset of the retail category in Oakland and
Piedmont based on analysis of the U.S Economic Census for General Merchandise Stores.14
Consequently, the BOE taxable sales figures for the general merchandise, food stores, and other retail
categories are adjusted upward to reflect non-taxable transactions.

The market area sales estimation process is documented in Exhibits 6 and 7 as well as Exhibits B-4
through B-8. Exhibit 6 identifies the estimation process for the City of Oakland portion of the market
area sales base while Exhibit 7 includes estimates for the City of Piedmont, which is fully encompassed
within the market area. The entire market area summation is presented in Exhibit 8.

The total estimated market area sales base in 2010 was approximately $860.6 million. The portion of
the market area in Oakland comprised $843.3 million of the sales base, or 98.0%. The portion of the


14
   Per the U.S. Economic Census data, General Merchandise stores encompass a mix of department stores,
discount department stores, warehouse clubs and Supercenters, variety stores, and other general
miscellaneous stores. The 20% estimate is based on the existing mix of stores in the City of Oakland.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                    25                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
market area in Piedmont comprised $17.3 million, or 2.0% of the sales base. Adjustments to this sales
base occur later in the analysis to reflect more current economic conditions.

Exhibit 9 identifies the estimated sales occurring in the portion of the market area in common with the
College & Claremont Safeway store. These sales total an estimated $200.6 million, or 23.3% the
market area total. This percentage figure is generally consistent with the portion of the Project market
area households also shared in common with the College & Claremont Safeway.

RETAIL LEAKAGE AND ATTRACTION FINDINGS

A Retail Demand, Sales Attraction, and Spending Leakage Analyses as prepared for the market area.
The analysis was conducted for approximately the 2010 time period. The market area findings were
then analytically adjusted to approximate conditions in 2011, the Project baseline period.

Market Area

The Project market area's Retail Demand, Sales Attraction, and Spending Analysis findings are
presented in Exhibit 10. The market area, as previously defined, comprises portions of the cities of
Oakland and Piedmont.

The findings in Exhibit 10 for the approximate 2010 time period indicate that the market area is
characterized by retail leakage in all retail categories except food and beverage stores, which is one
of the categories most relevant to the Project. This means that the market area as a whole does not
meet the shopping needs of market area residents with the exception of food sales. The leakage is
particularly strong on a percent of spending basis in five retail categories: general merchandise stores,
building materials & garden equipment, clothing & clothing accessories, the other retail group, and
home furnishings & appliances. In all five of these categories the leakage is equivalent to 50% or
more of anticipated resident spending. The leakage in these five categories totaled ($573.7) million.
Leakage is still high in most other categories, totaling approximately ($141.4) million more.

The food sales attraction is estimated to total $62.9 million in sales, indicating that sales in this
category are 19.6% greater than would be expected based upon the market area's resident base. This
food sales attraction is most likely attributable to the sales achieved at three of the market area food
stores ­ the Trader Joe's on College Avenue, the Trader Joe's on Lakeshore Avenue, and Whole
Foods on Bay Place. All three of these stores likely have a larger market area than the Rockridge
Safeway store, drawing from a larger geographic area because of their unique market niches. While
each of the above three stores include other stores in their chain in the general region, these other
stores are generally more distant from the market area than other Safeway stores are relative to the
Rockridge store. Therefore, these three stores are likely drawing from a larger market area than the
Rockridge Safeway store, and thus accounting for the noted food sales attraction.

To gain a perspective of the Project market area's Retail Demand, Sales Attraction, and Spending
Analysis findings, an analysis was completed for the City of Oakland, presented in Exhibit 11. Similar
to the market area, the findings in Exhibit 11 for the City of Oakland for approximately 2010 indicate
that the area as a whole is characterized by retail leakage in all retail categories except food &
beverage stores and home furnishings & appliances. This means that the City as a whole does not
meet the shopping needs of City residents with the exception of food sales and home furnishings &
appliances. The leakage is particularly strong in four retail categories on a percent of spending basis:
general merchandise stores, clothing & clothing accessories, building materials & garden equipment,
and motor vehicles & parts. In all four of these categories the leakage is equivalent to 50% or more of



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     26                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
anticipated resident spending. The leakage in these four categories totaled ($1.3) billion. Leakage is
still high in the other three leakage categories, totaling approximately ($271.7) million more, and the
City as a whole net of attraction displays a total leakage of ($1.55) billion.

Adjusted Market Area Findings

Because the Retail Demand, Sales Attraction, and Spending Analysis findings were based on 2010
sales and demand estimates, Exhibit 12 presents a generalized update to 2011 dollars. This update is
based on applying noted increases or decreases in taxable sales in representative market area retail
districts within the City of Oakland to the entire market area and the consumer price index to the
estimated level of consumer spending. This is a generalized update, which assumes that the
percentage changes in the Piedmont portion of the market area sales base paralleled the changes in
the City of Oakland. Since the City of Oakland dominates the market area's retail sales base, this
assumption is deemed reasonable for analytic purposes.

The result of these adjustments is presented in Exhibit 12, which indicates a market area sales base of
approximately $949.0 million and total retail leakage of ($658.2) million. This leakage is less than
the noted 2010 leakage from Exhibit 10 of ($692.2) million, mostly because inflation did not exceed
the percent increase in some of the retail category sales. Absent the influence of gasoline sales,
market area leakage decreased slightly from ($616.2) million in 2010 to ($612.7) million in 2011.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                    27                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                 VI. PROJECT SALES IMPACTS

The following analysis examines the extent to which the Project's operations would attract new sales to
the market area and/or divert sales from existing market area retailers. If some sales are diverted, the
maximum level of impact on existing retailers is identified.

APPROACH

ALH Economics has developed an analytic approach that estimates the impact of the Project's
incremental sales on existing retailers. For this analysis, the approach assumes that if the Project is
adding sales to a category in an amount greater than any potential recaptured market area leakage
in the category, then at worst, the amount of sales in that category in excess of any recaptured
leakage will be diverted away from existing market area retailers. This is a conservative assumption
given that diverted sales beyond the amount of recaptured leakage could also occur among other
retailers beyond the market area boundaries.

RECAPTURED LEAKAGE POTENTIAL

One potential source of demand for new retail space such as the Project is the share of market area
residents' shopping that occurs outside of the market area, comprising the estimated retail leakage. In
other words, given the identification of retail leakage, market area households clearly spend some
proportion of their incomes at non-market area stores, including the concentrations of retail in other
parts of Oakland, as well as nearby Berkeley, Emeryville, and beyond. If the addition of the Project
makes the market area a more convenient shopping destination, local demand could increase
through the recapture of these sales.

Leakage Categories and Amounts

As summarized in Exhibit 12, the market area experiences ($658.2) million in retail sales leakage.
Some of this leakage, however, is in categories not relevant to the Rockridge Safeway expansion
Project, such as leakage totaling ($56.3) million in motor vehicles sales, ($109.3) million in building
materials & garden equipment, and ($45.5) million in gasoline sales. The retail categories in the
market area with leakage relevant to the Project include home furnishings & appliances with ($24.6)
million in leakage, clothing & clothing accessories with ($57.9) million in leakage, general
merchandise with ($247.4) million in leakage, food services & drinking places with ($61.5) million in
leakage, and other retail with ($137.0) million in leakage.

Categories Comprising All Recaptured Leakage. The enhanced shopping opportunities provided
by the Project will serve to help recapture existing retail leakage. The amount of recaptured leakage
will depend upon the nature of the Project's retail opportunities and the complexity of the retail
purchase. As demonstrated in Exhibit 13, the analysis assumes all of the Project's clothing & clothing
accessories stores, general merchandise, food services & drinking places sales, and other retail will be
accounted for through recaptured leakage. Together, these four categories account for $35.5 million
in estimated market area Project sales. These sales are anticipated to be generated through
recaptured leakage because they comprise a relatively small share of the estimated leakage, such that
substantial leakage will still remain in these categories.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                    28                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Even with these amounts of sales accounted for through recaptured leakage there will still remain
approximately ($46.4) million in clothing & clothing accessories leakage generated by market area
residents, ($241.7) million in general merchandise, ($56.1) million in food services & drinking places
leakage, and ($124.1) million in other retail. Market area residents will continue to need to make
purchases for these items outside the market area to meet their consumer shopping needs.

Categories with Partial Recaptured Leakage. There is one other category of Project sales with
noted leakage that has the potential for some recapture. This category is the Project's $6.5 million
sales in the home furnishings & appliances category. While the market area's leakage in the category
totals approximately ($24.6) million, ALH Economics does not assume that all Project sales from
market area residents in this category will represent recaptured leakage. It is unlikely that all these
sales will comprise purchases the market area residents would not otherwise make in the market area.
Accordingly, the analysis assumes that one-half the Project's home furnishings & appliances sales will
constitute recaptured leakage, but that another one-half will not. In other words, market area
consumers will continue to make home furnishings & appliances purchases outside the market area to
meet a wide variety of needs, such that some portion of Project sales in this category may constitute
sales diverted from existing market area retailers. Hence the analysis assumes that $3.3 million in
Project home furnishings & appliances sales will comprise recaptured leakage and another $3.3
million will comprise sales diverted from existing market area retailers.

Total Project Recaptured Leakage. In total, Exhibit 13 indicates that an estimated $38.7 million in
Project sales will be achieved through recaptured sales leakage in the home furnishings & appliances,
clothing & clothing accessories, general merchandise, food services & drinking places, and other retail
categories. While this recaptured sales leakage amount translates into new market area sales, the
constituent recaptured sales will still occur to the detriment of other existing retailers.

Because these are recaptured sales, the existing retailers that will experience the corresponding sales
losses will be located outside the market area. These outside market area retailers will be spread over
a wide geographic area, depending on the nature of the good, such as other Oakland and Piedmont
locations, Berkeley, Emeryville, and even San Francisco. This is such a widely dispersed area with a
large number of stores that the sales impacts will be diffused among numerous outlets, such that it is
unlikely that any particular store outside the market area would lose sufficient sales directly
attributable to the Project resulting in store closure. In turn, these sales impacts would not lead to
urban decay in this more generalized area.

Remaining Market Area Leakage. Following the Project's estimated recapture of market area
leakage, there will still remain extremely high amounts of retail leakage from the market area,
estimated to total ($700.7) million. Every major retail category will exhibit leakage except food &
beverage sales. Leakage will be highest in general merchandise stores, followed by other retail,
building materials & garden equipment, motor vehicles & parts dealers, food services & drinking
places, clothing & clothing accessories, gasoline stations, and home furnishings & appliances.
Therefore, even with development of the Project, the market area as a whole will continue to exhibit
retail sales leakage in numerous retail categories. Therefore, if any retail vacancies occur due to
negative sales impacts of the Project, there would be strong potential for backfilling by new stores
positioned to satisfy unmet retail shopping needs.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                    29                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
ESTIMATED MARKET AREA SALES IMPACTS

Absent the share of Project sales anticipated to be generated by consumers outside the market area
and the above-referenced recaptured leakage, Exhibit 13 indicates the potential for $14.2 million in
sales to be diverted from market area retailers. This sales volume includes all of the Project's
anticipated $10.9 million in food sales generated by market area residents as well as $3.3 million in
home furnishings & appliances sales.

The market area is characterized by food sales attraction. Consequently, the analysis conservatively
assumes that any Project food sales generated by market area residents will occur to the detriment of
existing food & beverage retailers in the market area. This results in estimated diversion of 3.1% of the
existing food & beverage sales base. This is a conservative assumption, in that food sales captured by
the new and expanded Rockridge Safeway store could also be attracted away from other grocery and
food stores located outside the market area. In similar fashion, the portion of home furnishings &
appliances sales generated by market area residents not accounted for through recaptured leakage is
also conservatively assumed to be diverted away from existing other market area retailers. Given the
volume of the estimated food sales impact and the large quantity of grocery and food stores in and
near the Project's market area, this topic is probed in the following chapter.

The $3.3 million in home furnishings & appliances sales impacts comprises a substantial percentage
of the market area sales base in home furnishings & appliances, i.e., 15.3% of the sales base.
However, in absolute terms this is a low sales impact figure, and the space equivalent of this amount
of sales is about 10,000 square feet, assuming average store sales of $327 (see Exhibit B-1).
Therefore, it is very unlikely that any one retailer in the home furnishings & appliances category in the
market area will incur all these sales impacts, such that any existing stores will close. Accordingly,
these impacts are anticipated to be minor and unsubstantial relative to the existing market area retail
base.




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     30                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                         VII. GROCERY AND FOOD STORE IMPACTS

This chapter provides information and analysis about the grocery and food stores in and around the
market area most germane to the Rockridge Safeway expansion Project. Stores are identified and
discussed relative to their potential competitiveness with the Project. In addition to their relevance to
the Rockridge Safeway store, many of the stores are included because they are also relevant on a
cumulative basis, meaning when additional food sales impacts occur after the addition of other
planned retail projects such as the Rockridge Safeway redevelopment and expansion. The cumulative
impacts are discussed in a later report chapter, but this chapter discusses the extent and nature of
potential market area food sales impacts, as well as possible existing grocery and food stores that
may experience negative sales impacts following completion of the Project. There are numerous
grocery stores and food stores in and around the market area. This chapter references and discusses
the most relevant stores plus a sampling of other potentially affected food stores.

COMPETITIVE GROCERY AND FOOD STORES IDENTIFICATION AND PERFORMANCE

Identification of Competitive Grocery and Food Stores

The market area has an abundant and diverse supply of grocery and food stores located in a variety
of settings, including shopping centers and major commercial nodes. Also relevant, especially from a
cumulative perspective, are grocery and food stores located outside the market area. ALH Economics
visited many of these stores, viewing product mixes, customer volume, level of service, unique
attributes, and commercial real estate settings. The food and grocery stores are diverse in their target
consumer. Some are high-end, upscale stores that focus on providing extensive or exclusive product
selection often in a stylized setting, others offer a conventional supermarket setting, a few are
discount-oriented stores, and many are smaller niche markets that serve a very localized clientele or
narrow produce niche, such as mostly fresh fruits and vegetables. There are also many ethnic markets
located throughout the market area, serving specialized international markets, such as Middle Eastern
and Korean. Most stores fit in one of the referenced market orientations; Safeway, however, has a mix
of conventional and upscale stores.

ALH Economics visited select portions of the Oakland, Piedmont, Berkeley, and Emeryville area retail
markets in October 2011 and throughout 2012 to visually assess food and grocery store market
performance, to determine market niches, to qualitatively assess the degree to which stores might
incur lost sales due to the Rockridge Safeway store expansion, and to assess overall retail market
conditions. The competitive food store locations are mapped on Exhibit 3. This includes many of the
smaller food stores and all of the large grocery stores in the Rockridge Safeway market area. These
stores are also listed beginning on the next page in Table 2, which additionally identifies each store's
distance from the Project. While these materials do not include all stores selling food items in and
around the market area they include the stores deemed most competitive with or relevant to analysis
of the Rockridge Safeway store expansion.

Given the market orientation and locational distribution of the food stores relative to Safeway, ALH
Economics believes it is most meaningful to classify the competitive food stores by orientation and
location. Accordingly, the following individualized store discussions and analyses are presented in this
manner. While not located in the market area, some of the identified stores could experience negative
sales impacts from the Rockridge Safeway expansion. However, these additional stores are most
relevant to the later discussion on cumulative project impacts.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     31                     ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                              Table 2
                      Rockridge Safeway Store Market Area Select Grocery Stores
                                                                                           Miles
                                                                             Market
Food Store, Address, City                                                                   from
                                                                           Orientation    Safeway
Within the Market Area
Temescal Produce Market, 4001 Broadway, Oakland                               Niche         0.6
Market Hall, 5655 College Avenue, Oakland                                    Upscale        0.6
Trader Joe's, 5727 College Avenue, Oakland                                    Niche         0.7
Temescal Produce Market, 5121 Telegraph Avenue, Oakland                       Niche         0.7
Village Market, 5885 Broadway Terrace, Oakland                               Upscale        1.0
Piedmont Grocery, 4038 Piedmont Avenue, Oakland                              Upscale        1.0
Monte Vista Food Center, 4000 Piedmont Avenue, Oakland                        Niche         1.0
Safeway, College & Claremont Avenues, Oakland                              Conventional     1.1
Yasai Produce Market, 6301 College Avenue, Oakland                            Niche         1.1
Ver Brugge Meat-Fish Poultry, 6321 College Avenue, Oakland                    Niche         1.1
Grocery Outlet, 2900 Broadway, Oakland                                       Discount       1.6
Safeway, 3747 Grand Avenue, Oakland                                        Conventional     1.6
Mulberry's Market, 335 Highland Avenue, Piedmont                              Niche         1.8
Koreana Plaza Market, 2370 Telegraph Avenue, Oakland                          Ethnic        1.8
Oasis Food Market, 3045 Telegraph Avenue, Oakland                             Ethnic        2.1
Whole Foods, 230 Bay Place, Oakland                                          Upscale        2.1
Lakeshore Natural Foods, 3321 Lakeshore Avenue, Oakland                       Niche         2.1
Lakeshore Produce & Health Foods, 3260 Lakeshore Avenue, Oakland              Niche         2.1
Trader Joe's, 3250 Lakeshore Avenue, Oakland                                  Niche         2.3
Savemore Market, 4219 Park Boulevard, Oakland                                 Niche         2.5
Gateway Supermarket, 5908 San Pablo Avenue, Oakland                           Niche         2.7
Near the Market Area
Star Grocery, 3068 Claremont Avenue, Berkeley                                 Niche         1.4
Ashby Marketplace, 2642 Ashby Avenue, Berkeley                                Niche         1.6
Whole Foods, 3000 Telegraph Avenue, Berkeley                                 Upscale        1.9
Pak `n Save, 3889 San Pablo Avenue, Emeryville                               Discount       2.0
Andronico's, 2655 Telegraph Avenue, Berkeley (closed mid-12/11)            Conventional     2.2
Berkeley Bowl, 2020 Oregon Street, Berkeley                                  Upscale        2.4
Lucky, 1963 Mountain Boulevard, Oakland                                    Conventional     3.0
Safeway, 2096 Mountain Boulevard, Oakland                                  Conventional     3.0
Rocky's Market, 1440 Leimert Boulevard, Oakland                               Niche         3.0
                th
Lucky, 247 E. 18 Street, Oakland                                           Conventional     3.1
Trader Joe's, 1885 University Avenue, Berkeley                                Niche         3.7
Berkeley Bowl West, 920 Heinz Avenue, Berkeley                               Upscale        3.7
Andronico's, 1414 University Avenue, Berkeley (closed 11/11)               Conventional     3.7
Trader Joe's, 5700 Christie Avenue, Emeryville                                Niche         4.1
Andronico's, 1550 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley                                Conventional     4.2
Farmer Joe's Marketplace, 3426 Fruitvale Avenue, Oakland                      Niche         4.2
Safeway, 3550 Fruitvale Avenue, Oakland                                    Conventional     4.3
Safeway, 1444 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley                                    Conventional     4.3




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                      32                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                            Table 2, continued
                         Rockridge Safeway Store Market Area Select Grocery Stores
                                                                                                 Miles
                                                                                   Market
 Food Store, Address, City                                                                        from
                                                                                 Orientation    Safeway

 Monterey Market, 1550 Hopkins Street, Berkeley                                     Niche         4.7
 Andronico's, 1850 Solano Avenue, Berkeley                                       Conventional     5.1
 Berkeley Natural Grocery, 1336 Gilman Street                                       Niche         5.1
 Farmer Joe's Marketplace, 3501 MacArthur Boulevard, Oakland                        Niche         5.2
 Lucky, 4055 MacArthur Boulevard, Oakland                                        Conventional     5.5
                       th
 Grocery Outlet, 2001 4 Street, Berkeley                                           Discount       5.7
 Safeway, 4100 Redwood Boulevard, Oakland                                        Conventional     5.8

 Source: ALH Urban & Regional Economics; and Maps.Google.com.


Grocery Store Sales Performance Information

For the purpose of this study, ALH Economics obtained information about select grocery store
performance in and around the Project's market area. These data were obtained from Nielsen Trade
Dimensions, which provides individual store weekly sales estimates as well as each store's estimated
sales selling area. From these data, generalized analysis can be conducted to assess the relative sales
performance of the stores. Nielsen's Terms of Use for the Trade Dimensions data prevent publishing
individual store performance information. However, information about store performance in general
and in relation to other stores can be divulged.

Based on the Nielsen Trade Dimensions data acquired by ALH Economics, it appears that most of the
market area and many of the outside market area stores are performing at or above general grocery
industry standards sales per square foot or the average sales per square foot figures for the relevant
chains, such as Trader Joe's and Whole Foods. According to Retail Maxim, the Trader Joe's chain
nationally in 2011 achieved $1,790 sales per square foot, while the equivalent figure for Whole
Foods was $854. 15 The high sales of these stores locally is a strong indicator of store success despite
the continuing poor economic conditions following the most recent national recession. The greatest
relevancy of this information is its use as an indicator of the potential for some existing stores to
withstand potential sales declines while still retaining above industry or chain sales performance.

INDIVIDUALIZED STORE ANALYSIS WITHIN THE MARKET AREA

Following are discussions of the Exhibit 3 and Table 2 grocery and food stores located in the market
area. The Oakland commercial node is referenced for the stores located in Oakland. All discussions
of negative sales impacts pertain exclusively to impacts associated with the Rockridge Safeway
expansion. These discussions are based on ALH Economics experience with and field visits to the
identified stores.




15
     Retail Maxim, "Alternative Retail Risk Analysis for Alternative Capital," July 2012.



Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                           33                       ALH Urban & Regional Economics
Conventional Grocery and Food Stores within the Market Area

Conventional stores are full-service grocery stores that offer most or all of the following: a fresh
bakery; fresh meat and seafood; frozen foods including frozen meat; fresh produce; a deli counter;
and prepared foods. Other specialties sometimes include organic foods, a flower selection, a
pharmacy, or a photo center.

Safeway, College & Claremont Avenues ­ 1.1 miles. This is a smaller Safeway store located at the
intersection of College and Claremont avenues in Oakland, just south of the border with the City of
Berkeley in Oakland's Rockridge area. This 24,260-square-foot store is located in the midst of a very
vibrant commercial shopping district, including other small specialty food retailers. This 24-hour store
is seeking public approvals to support expansion of the store to 50,860 square feet plus the
development of an additional 10,657 square feet of ground level retail, of which 9,537 square feet
will comprise net additional space. This store includes a deli counter, packaged meat and seafood,
prepared foods, a florist, and some organic/health foods. The store and parking lot are in moderately
good condition, and the store has high customer volume. If this store succeeds in its expansion efforts
then the expansion would offset any sales impacts attributable to the expansion of the Rockridge
Safeway. However, if this store does not expand as planned, then it is possible that expansion of the
Rockridge Safeway could impact sales at this store, as shoppers choose to frequent the Rockridge
store to take advantage of the wider range of products that will be available following expansion.

Safeway, 3747 Grand Avenue, Oakland ­ 1.6 miles. This is a smaller grocery store located along
one end of Oakland's Grand Avenue/Grand Lake commercial node, with the parking lot located on
the side of the store. This Safeway store has a deli counter, packaged meat and seafood, prepared
foods, a florist, and some organic/health foods. Both the store and parking lots are well maintained
and in excellent condition. The hours of operation are 6:00AM ­ Midnight, Monday-Sunday. While
visiting the store ALH Economics observed this Safeway to have high shopper volume. Given its size,
orientation, and distance from the Rockridge Safeway (1.6 miles) this store is expected to compete
with the Rockridge Safeway expansion and will likely experience some negative sales impacts.

Upscale Grocery and Food Stores within the Market Area

Upscale stores focus on providing extensive or exclusive product selection often in a stylized setting.
There is usually an emphasis on fresh foods, gourmet products, and organic foods at upscale stores.
These stores have wider aisles and nicer decors, such as wood flooring in the produce section.

Market Hall, 5655 College Avenue, Oakland ­ 0.6 miles. Market Hall is a collection of eight
specialty shops under one roof near the Rockridge BART station, in Oakland's Rockridge area. The
shops sell a variety of food products, and include Highwire Coffee Roasters, Market Hall Produce,
Marin Sun Farms Butcher Shop, Hapuku Fish Market, the Pasta Shop, Bloomies Flowers, and Paul
Marcus Wines. These shops sell a variety of fresh and specialty food products, including produce,
meat, fish, pasta, baked goods, and wine, and appear to achieve high shopper volume. The hours of
operation for most of the shops are 9:00AM ­ 8:00PM, Monday ­ Friday, 9:00AM ­ 7:00PM
Saturday, and 10:00AM ­ 7:00PM Sunday. The shops at Market Hall are very specialized and unique,
with a strong local following, and thus are not anticipated to experience any sales impact upon
expansion of the Rockridge Safeway store, despite their location 0.6 miles from the Safeway store.

Village Market, 5885 Broadway Terrace, Oakland ­ 1.0 miles. Village Market is a local, upscale
grocery store. This store is located in the Montclair Village neighborhood in Oakland adjacent to a




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                    34                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
coffee and gift store, nursery, and auto repair shop. This store offers a deli counter, cheese deli,
prepared foods, packaged meat and seafood, organic/health goods, and floral section. The quality of
the store and parking are excellent and well kept. While visiting the store ALH Economics observed the
parking lot to be very busy and the store to have high shopper volume. The hours of operation are
7:00AM ­ 9:00PM, Monday-Saturday and 8:00AM-8:00PM, Sunday. Given its size and upscale and
local market orientation, this store would not be considered competitive; however, after expansion the
Safeway store will have greater produce and fruit options, including organic, and thus will be more
competitive with Village Market. Accordingly, Village Market might incur some negative sales impacts
as a result, but because this market is specialized, well-established, and has a loyal following, ALH
Economics anticipates that the sales impacts will be low.

Piedmont Grocery, 4000 Piedmont Avenue, Oakland ­ 1.0 miles. Piedmont Grocery is a local,
upscale grocery store with strong neighborhood loyalty. This store is located in the Piedmont Avenue
shopping area of Oakland with the parking lot located in the rear. This store offers a fresh bakery,
deli counter, prepared foods, fresh and packaged meat and seafood, organic/health goods, and a
section with candles and gift-type items. The quality of the store and parking area are in good
condition and well kept. While visiting the store ALH Economics observed the parking lot to be busy
and the store to have high shopper volume. The hours of operation are 9:00AM ­ 8:00PM, Monday-
Saturday and 9:00AM-7:00PM, Sunday. While this store has a local market orientation, given its
upscale nature and distance from the Rockridge Safeway (1.0 miles) this store may experience some
negative sales impacts.

Whole Foods, 230 Bay Place, Oakland ­ 2.1 miles. Whole Foods is a natural and organic food
store with locations in North America and the United Kingdom. This Whole Foods location is a very
large store, situated in a former auto dealership near the Grand Avenue-Adams Point area of
Oakland. This store offers a fresh bakery, extensive deli counter, gourmet cheese options, an olive
bar, an extensive prepared foods section, fresh and packaged meat and seafood, a large bulk foods
section, ethnic foods, fresh coffee, organic/health goods, a florist, a gelato stand, and a Café
Gratitude. The quality of the store and parking area are excellent. While visiting the store ALH
Economics observed extremely high shopper volume. The hours of operation are Monday-Sunday,
8:00AM ­ 10:00PM. Given its upscale orientation and distance from the Rockridge Safeway (2.1
miles), plus Safeway's plans to have greater produce and fruit options upon expansion, including
organic, this store may experience some negative sales impacts.

Niche-Market Grocery and Food Stores within the Market Area

Niche-market stores are usually smaller stores that are distinguished from other stores by offering a
certain type of grocery selection that is different than conventional stores. This may be the store's own,
local, or imported brands of items.

Temescal Produce Market, 4001 Broadway, Oakland ­ 0.6 miles. This is a very small market
located at the northwest corner of 40th Street and Broadway, approximately 0.6 miles south of the
Rockridge Safeway Project site in the Upper Broadway/Oakland Tech area of Oakland. The store
features a limited amount of fresh produce, a small dairy section, ice cream, cookies, bulk items such
as nuts and pasta, a small selection of specialty food items like black olive tapenade and organic
tomato sauce, gluten-free products, organic products including organic cleaning products, and
personal care products. The hours of operation are 9:00AM ­ 9:00PM, daily. The store is in good
condition with street and off-street parking available. Customer volume appears light. Despite its close
proximity to the Rockridge Safeway (0.6 miles), this store is not anticipated to experience negative




Rockridge Urban Decay Analysis                     35                      ALH Urban & Regional Economics
                                                                                                                MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                                                              File Name              : broadway-manila-p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Site Code              :1
fp                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Start Date             : 5/13/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                                                          Page No                :1


                                                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                         BROADWAY                                           MANILA AV                                    MONROE AV                                       BROADWAY                                                   MANILA AV
                         Southbound                                       Southwestbound                                  Westbound                                         Northbound                                            Northeastbound
                                         to                                                  to                      to                to                                      to                to                                     to
 Start Time     RT     TH      LT             App. Total     RT            TH       LT            App. Total               RT                  LT    App. Total    RT                 TH                App. Total    RT                      TH      LT   App. Total   Int. Total
                                     Manila                                              Monroe                  Manila            Manila                                  Manila            Manila                              Monroe
       16:00      9     79     13        1       102               2         1       1       3          7            0       0         0        0            0       2         1      138        0          141          0           8          1      8        17       267
       16:15      6     76     16        2       100               2         2       3       4         11            0       0         0        0            0       1         0      131        0          132          2           8          1     11        22       265
       16:30      3     85      6        0        94               2         1       3       0          6            0       0         0        0            0       0         4      191        1          196          2          10          2      8        22       318
       16:45      8     73      9        0        90               3         4       4       2         13            0       0         0        0            0       1         2      169        1          173          0          16          1     17        34       310
        Total    26    313     44        3       386               9         8      11       9         37            0       0         0        0            0       4         7      629        2          642          4          42          5     44        95      1160

       17:00     10     86     10        2       108           2             3       5      6          16            0       0         0        0            0       2       2        215        2          221         1           12         2      19       34        379
       17:15      3     95      9        1       108           3             0       4      1           8            0       0         0        0            0       0       1        209        3          213         2           15         4      16       37        366
       17:30      6     73      9        1        89           3             1       1      0           5            0       0         0        0            0       1       4        217        1          223         5           10         2      20       37        354
       17:45      4     89     16        0       109           5             5       6      5          21            0       0         0        0            0       1       3        173        2          179         6           18         3      23       50        359
        Total    23    343     44        4       414          13             9      16     12          50            0       0         0        0            0       4      10        814        8          836        14           55        11      78      158       1458

  Grand Total    49    656     88      7         800          22            17      27     21          87            0       0         0        0            0       8      17       1443      10        1478          18           97         16    122      253       2618
  Apprch %      6.1     82     11    0.9                    25.3          19.5      31   24.1                        0       0         0        0                  0.5     1.2       97.6     0.7                     7.1        38.3         6.3   48.2
   Total %      1.9   25.1    3.4    0.3        30.6         0.8           0.6       1    0.8         3.3            0       0         0        0            0     0.3     0.6       55.1     0.4           56.5      0.7          3.7        0.6    4.7       9.7




                         BROADWAY                                           MANILA AV                                       MONROE AV                                    BROADWAY                                                   MANILA AV
                         Southbound                                       Southwestbound                                    Westbound                                       Northbound                                            Northeastbound
                                         to                                                  to                      to                to                                      to                to                                     to
 Start Time     RT     TH      LT             App. Total     RT            TH       LT            App. Total               RT                  LT    App. Total    RT                 TH                App. Total    RT                      TH      LT   App. Total   Int. Total
                                     Manila                                              Monroe                  Manila            Manila                                  Manila            Manila                              Monroe
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
        17:00    10      86      10      2       108    2                    3       5      6          16            0       0         0        0            0       2       2        215        2          221         1           12         2      19       34        379
        17:15      3     95       9      1       108    3                    0       4      1           8            0       0         0        0            0       0       1        209        3          213         2           15         4      16       37        366
        17:30      6     73       9      1        89    3                    1       1      0           5            0       0         0        0            0       1       4        217        1          223         5           10         2      20       37        354
        17:45      4     89      16      0       109    5                    5       6      5          21            0       0         0        0            0       1       3        173        2          179         6           18         3      23       50        359
 Total Volume    23 343          44      4       414   13                    9      16     12          50            0       0         0        0            0       4      10        814        8          836        14           55        11      78      158       1458
  % App. Total  5.6 82.9 10.6            1             26                   18      32     24                        0       0         0        0                  0.5     1.2       97.4        1                    8.9        34.8          7    49.4
         PHF .575 .903 .688 .500                .950 .650                 .450    .667   .500       .595        .000      .000    .000      .000         .000     .500    .625       .938    .667           .937     .583        .764        .688   .848     .790        .962


                                                                                                                           BROADWAY                                                                              MANILA AV
                                                                                                                    Out       In    Total


                                                                                                                                                                                             O 25
                                                                                                                     905       414   1319

                                                                                                                                                                                              ut
                                                                                                                                                                                    13




                                                                                                                                                                                                         In 50
                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                   23        343          44        4
                                                                                                                                                                                       T




                                                                                                                  RT        TH          LT      to
                                                                                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                                        TH




                                                                                                                                               Manila

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To 75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                               16
                                                                                                                                                                                                LT


                                                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                                                       to nro
                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                                                                                              e




                                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Manila
                                                                                                                                                                                                  to




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       115
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                 North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MONROE AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                       RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Manila




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    to




                                                                                                                 Vehicles Only
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 115
                                                                                                                                                                                                       LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                LT 78

                                                           TH 11
                                     40 t




                                                                       to nro




                                                                                                                 to              to
                                                                        M 5
                                      O
                                        u




                                                                         o 5




                                                                                                                Manila      TH Manila               RT
                                                                              e




                                                                                                                     8       814   10                    4
                                                 15




                                                                             R 14
                                                                              T
                                                   In
                                                    8




                                                                                                                     373   836                  1209
                                                            19 tal
                                                             To




                                                                                                                    Out   In                   Total
                                                              8




                                     MANILA AV                                                                      BROADWAY
                                                                                                      MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                                           File Name        : broadway-manila-s
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Site Code        :1
fp                                                                                                                                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                                                     Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                         BROADWAY                                  MANILA AV                                   MONROE AV                                   BROADWAY                                           MANILA AV
                         Southbound                              Southwestbound                                 Westbound                                     Northbound                                    Northeastbound
                                         to                                        to                      to              to                                    to              to                            to
 Start Time     RT     TH      LT             App. Total   RT     TH     LT             App. Total               RT              LT    App. Total    RT                TH             App. Total    RT               TH     LT    App. Total   Int. Total
                                     Manila                                    Monroe                  Manila          Manila                                Manila          Manila                        Monroe
       16:00      2     72      6        0        80        0       0      1       0            1          0      4      2         0         6         0         1     88        0        89         1        5        0      4        10        186
       16:15      3     75      5        1        84        0       0      3       0            3          0      3      1         0         4         0         0     93        0        93         0        3        0      5         8        192
       16:30      5     71      6        0        82        0       0      1       0            1          0      5      2         1         8         1         2    109        2       114         5       11        0      4        20        225
       16:45      4     76      5        0        85        0       0      0       0            0          0      4      8         1        13         0         1     93        0        94         4        7        1      5        17        209
        Total    14    294     22        1       331        0       0      5       0            5          0     16     13         2        31         1         4    383        2       390        10       26        1     18        55        812

       17:00      6     67     11        1        85        0       1      1       0            2          0      3      8         0        11         2         1     93      1          97         2        6        1      5        14        209
       17:15      9     63      8        0        80        0       0      1       0            1          0      1      2         0         3         1         0     72      2          75         6        8        1      5        20        179
       17:30      6     83     10        1       100        0       1      1       0            2          0      4      5         0         9         0         1     79      5          85         3        9        4      5        21        217
       17:45     10     77     14        1       102        1       0      2       0            3          0      6      4         1        11         2         0    106      2         110         2        4        0      3         9        235
        Total    31    290     43        3       367        1       2      5       0            8          0     14     19         1        34         5         2    350     10         367        13       27        6     18        64        840

       18:00      4     66      2        0        72        0       0      1       0            1          0      6      5         0        11         2         0     75        0        77          2       7        0      1        10        171
       18:15      4     61      9        0        74        0       1      0       0            1          0      4      4         0         8         0         0     80        0        80          4      10        1      9        24        187
       18:30      9     77     10        1        97        0       1      2       0            3          0     10      7         0        17         0         1     49        0        50          1       6        1      3        11        178
       18:45      7     77     13        0        97        1       0      0       1            2          1      6      4         0        11         1         0     64        1        66          1       6        0      3        10        186
        Total    24    281     34        1       340        1       2      3       1            7          1     26     20         0        47         3         1    268        1       273          8      29        2     16        55        722

  Grand Total    69    865     99      5       1038          2      4     13       1         20          1        56    52         3      112          9       7      1001     13      1030         31       82        9     52      174       2374
  Apprch %      6.6   83.3    9.5    0.5                    10     20     65       5                   0.9        50   46.4      2.7                 0.9     0.7      97.2    1.3                  17.8    47.1      5.2   29.9
   Total %      2.9   36.4    4.2    0.2        43.7       0.1    0.2    0.5       0        0.8          0       2.4    2.2      0.1       4.7       0.4     0.3      42.2    0.5       43.4        1.3     3.5      0.4    2.2       7.3




                         BROADWAY                                  MANILA AV                                      MONROE AV                                BROADWAY                                           MANILA AV
                         Southbound                              Southwestbound                                   Westbound                                   Northbound                                    Northeastbound
                                         to                                        to                      to              to                                    to              to                            to
 Start Time     RT     TH      LT             App. Total   RT     TH     LT             App. Total               RT              LT    App. Total    RT                TH             App. Total    RT               TH     LT    App. Total   Int. Total
                                     Manila                                    Monroe                  Manila          Manila                                Manila          Manila                        Monroe
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:30 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
        17:00      6     67      11      1        85    0          1       1       0            2          0      3      8         0        11         2       1       93       1         97         2        6        1      5        14        209
        17:15      9     63       8      0        80    0          0       1       0            1          0      1      2         0         3         1       0       72       2         75         6        8        1      5        20        179
        17:30      6     83      10      1       100    0          1       1       0            2          0      4      5         0         9         0       1       79       5         85         3        9        4      5        21        217
        17:45    10      77      14      1       102    1          0       2       0            3          0      6      4         1        11         2       0      106       2        110         2        4        0      3         9        235
 Total Volume    31 290          43      3       367    1          2       5       0            8          0     14     19         1        34         5       2      350      10        367        13       27        6     18        64        840
  % App. Total  8.4      79 11.7       0.8           12.5         25    62.5       0                       0    41.2   55.9      2.9                 1.4     0.5      95.4    2.7                  20.3    42.2      9.4   28.1
         PHF .775 .873 .768 .750                .900 .250        .500   .625   .000       .667        .000      .583   .594     .250     .773       .625    .500      .825   .500       .834       .542    .750     .375   .900     .762        .894
                                                                                         MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                          File Name             : broadway-terrace-p
                                                                                                                                                                         Site Code             :2
fp                                                                                                                                                                       Start Date            : 5/11/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                      Page No               :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                                 BROADWAY TERRACE                      BROADWAY                                                    0
                                   Southbound                                   Westbound                            Northbound                                          Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT            App. Total      RT    TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT         App. Total         RT           TH       LT            App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0        86        3                     89     5     0       53         58         56    137        0              193           0             0       0                     0         340
             16:15         0        98        3                    101     7     0       46         53         63    140        0              203           0             0       0                     0         357
             16:30         0        72        7                     79     6     0       39         45         66    161        0              227           0             0       0                     0         351
             16:45         0        70        5                     75     7     0       44         51         75    175        0              250           0             0       0                     0         376
              Total        0       326       18                    344    25     0      182        207       260     613        0              873           0             0       0                     0        1424

             17:00          0        95              8             103     8       0       35             43       82      202      0          284             0               0          0              0        430
             17:15          0        78             14              92     3       0       49             52      101      208      0          309             0               0          0              0        453
             17:30          0        80              9              89    10       0       39             49       86      196      0          282             0               0          0              0        420
             17:45          0        87             15             102     9       0       59             68       99      184      0          283             0               0          0              0        453
              Total         0       340             46             386    30       0      182            212      368      790      0         1158             0               0          0              0       1756

      Grand Total           0       666              64            730     55      0      364            419      628     1403      0         2031             0               0          0              0       3180
        Apprch %            0      91.2             8.8                  13.1      0     86.9                    30.9      69.1     0                          0               0          0
          Total %           0      20.9               2             23    1.7      0     11.4            13.2    19.7      44.1     0         63.9             0               0          0              0




                                    BROADWAY                                BROADWAY TERRACE                          BROADWAY                                                0
                                    Southbound                                  Westbound                                Northbound                                      Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total           RT    TH       LT App. Total             RT     TH      LT     App. Total         RT           TH       LT            App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            0        95          8       103              8       0      35             43       82      202       0         284            0           0                0             0        430
             17:15            0        78         14        92              3       0      49             52      101      208       0         309            0           0                0             0        453
             17:30            0        80          9        89             10       0      39             49       86      196       0         282            0           0                0             0        420
             17:45            0        87         15       102              9       0      59             68       99      184       0         283            0           0                0             0        453
     Total Volume             0      340          46       386             30       0     182            212      368      790       0        1158            0           0                0             0       1756
     % App. Total             0     88.1        11.9                     14.2       0    85.8                    31.8     68.2       0                        0           0                0
              PHF         .000      .895        .767      .937           .750    .000    .771            .779    .911     .950    .000        .937         .000        .000             .000         .000         .969


                                                                                                  BROADWAY
                                                                                           Out       In    Total
                                                                                            820       386   1206


                                                                                                     0     340     46
                                                                                                RT        TH     LT




                                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                              0
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                   BROADWAY TERRACE
                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                                    414
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                      RT
                                                              LT




                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                       30
                                                0


                                                          0
                                      In




                                                              TH




                                                                                                                                                      TH




                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                           212
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                          Vehicles Only
                                                          0
                                                0



                                                              RT




                                                                                                                                                      LT
                                                                                                                                                      182
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                                                                 626




                                                                                                LT        TH     RT
                                                                                                     0     790    368


                                                                                            522  1158              1680
                                                                                           Out    In              Total
                                                                                           BROADWAY
                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                   File Name     : broadway-terrace-s
                                                                                                                                                  Site Code     :2
fp                                                                                                                                                Start Date    : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                               Page No       :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                          BROADWAY TERRACE                          BROADWAY                                0
                                   Southbound                            Westbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT       App. Total    RT    TH       LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0        95        2             97      4     0       35         39         31     118        0         149      0      0       0             0         285
             16:15         0        64        6             70      5     0       36         41         48     103        0         151      0      0       0             0         262
             16:30         0        48        9             57      7     0       51         58         43     110        0         153      0      0       0             0         268
             16:45         0        66        5             71      6     0       44         50         39      87        0         126      0      0       0             0         247
              Total        0       273       22            295     22     0      166        188       161      418        0         579      0      0       0             0        1062

             17:00          0        68         5           73      5        0      48         53      37       105      0          142      0      0      0              0        268
             17:15          0        83         6           89      5        0      45         50      29        91      0          120      0      0      0              0        259
             17:30          0        92         5           97      5        0      32         37      29        77      0          106      0      0      0              0        240
             17:45          0        67         7           74      5        0      37         42      28        78      0          106      0      0      0              0        222
              Total         0       310        23          333     20        0     162        182     123       351      0          474      0      0      0              0        989

             18:00          0        70         1           71      5        0      35         40      24        86      0          110      0      0      0              0        221
             18:15          0        76         4           80      5        0      34         39      27        73      0          100      0      0      0              0        219
             18:30          0        66         3           69      3        0      37         40      27        78      0          105      0      0      0              0        214
             18:45          0        69         2           71      4        0      32         36      21        60      0           81      0      0      0              0        188
              Total         0       281        10          291     17        0     138        155      99       297      0          396      0      0      0              0        842

      Grand Total           0       864         55         919      59       0     466        525      383     1066      0         1449      0      0      0              0       2893
        Apprch %            0        94          6                11.2       0    88.8                26.4      73.6     0                   0      0      0
          Total %           0      29.9        1.9        31.8       2       0    16.1       18.1     13.2      36.8     0         50.1      0      0      0              0




                                    BROADWAY                         BROADWAY TERRACE                          BROADWAY                                0
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT    TH       LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00            0        95           2       97       4       0      35         39       31      118       0         149       0      0      0             0        285
             16:15            0        64           6       70       5       0      36         41       48      103       0         151       0      0      0             0        262
             16:30            0        48           9       57       7       0      51         58       43      110       0         153       0      0      0             0        268
             16:45            0        66           5       71       6       0      44         50       39       87       0         126       0      0      0             0        247
     Total Volume             0      273           22      295      22       0     166        188      161      418       0         579       0      0      0             0       1062
     % App. Total             0     92.5          7.5             11.7       0    88.3                27.8     72.2       0                   0      0      0
              PHF         .000      .718        .611      .760    .786    .000    .814       .810     .839     .886    .000        .946    .000   .000   .000         .000         .932
                                                                                             MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                          File Name        : broadway-college-p
                                                                                                                                                                         Site Code        :3
fp                                                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/11/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                                                0                             BROADWAY                                     COLLEGE AV
                                   Southbound                                         Westbound                             Northbound                                 Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT                  App. Total      RT    TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT     App. Total         RT      TH       LT App. Total         Int. Total
             16:00        16        93        0                         109      0     0         0           0         0    179      74           253          92        0       0        92                454
             16:15        15        98        0                         113      0     0         0           0         0    166      68           234          71        0       0        71                418
             16:30        12       111        0                         123      0     0         0           0         0    219      86           305         101        0       0       101                529
             16:45        14       124        0                         138      0     0         0           0         0    227      81           308          87        0       0        87                533
              Total       57       426        0                         483      0     0         0           0         0    791     309          1100         351        0       0       351               1934

             17:00         11        96                    0            107      0      0       0              0         0    283     79          362          98              0     0          98         567
             17:15          8       119                    0            127      0      0       0              0         0    237     84          321          84              0     0          84         532
             17:30          5       102                    0            107      0      0       0              0         0    245     63          308          89              0     0          89         504
             17:45         14       117                    0            131      0      0       0              0         0    255     83          338         112              0     0         112         581
              Total        38       434                    0            472      0      0       0              0         0   1020    309         1329         383              0     0         383        2184

      Grand Total          95       860                    0            955      0      0       0              0         0   1811     618        2429          734             0     0         734        4118
        Apprch %          9.9      90.1                    0                     0      0       0                        0    74.6   25.4                      100             0     0
          Total %         2.3      20.9                    0            23.2     0      0       0              0         0      44     15          59         17.8             0     0         17.8




                                    BROADWAY                                               0                            BROADWAY                                      COLLEGE AV
                                    Southbound                                        Westbound                            Northbound                                  Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total                 RT    TH       LT     App. Total     RT     TH      LT      App. Total         RT      TH       LT App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00           11        96          0       107                    0      0       0             0       0       283     79         362           98        0           0         98         567
             17:15            8      119           0       127                    0      0       0             0       0       237     84         321           84        0           0         84         532
             17:30            5      102           0       107                    0      0       0             0       0       245     63         308           89        0           0         89         504
             17:45           14      117           0       131                    0      0       0             0       0       255     83         338          112        0           0        112         581
     Total Volume            38      434           0       472                    0      0       0             0       0     1020     309        1329          383        0           0        383        2184
     % App. Total           8.1     91.9           0                              0      0       0                     0      76.7   23.3                      100        0           0
              PHF         .679      .912        .000      .901                 .000   .000    .000          .000    .000      .901   .920        .918         .855     .000        .000        .855        .940


                                                                                                       BROADWAY
                                                                                                Out       In    Total
                                                                                                1020       472   1492


                                                                                                      38      434        0
                                                                                                     RT      TH     LT




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                                    730
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                         RT
                                                                   LT




                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                            North
                                        COLLEGE AV




                                                                                                                                                              0
                                              383


                                                               0
                                             In




                                                                   TH




                                                                                                                                                         TH




                                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                               Vehicles Only
                                                               383
                                      347



                                                               RT




                                                                                                                                                         LT
                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                     LT     TH      RT
                                                                                                      309   1020         0


                                                                                                 817  1329            2146
                                                                                                Out    In            Total
                                                                                                BROADWAY
                                                                                MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                    File Name      : broadway-college-s
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code      :3
fp                                                                                                                                                 Start Date     : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                Page No        :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                                   0                             BROADWAY                              COLLEGE AV
                                   Southbound                            Westbound                             Northbound                          Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT       App. Total    RT    TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT   App. Total     RT     TH       LT App. Total     Int. Total
             16:00        12       126        0            138      0     0         0           0         0    152      78         230     100       0       0       100            468
             16:15         4       105        0            109      0     0         0           0         0    151      82         233      70       0       0        70            412
             16:30        11        84        0             95      0     0         0           0         0    154      76         230     107       0       0       107            432
             16:45        12       100        0            112      0     0         0           0         0    130      90         220      77       0       0        77            409
              Total       39       415        0            454      0     0         0           0         0    587     326         913     354       0       0       354           1721

             17:00          9       101          0         110      0      0       0             0     0     139       90          229      94       0       0          94         433
             17:15         21       110          0         131      0      0       0             0     0     123       67          190      98       0       0          98         419
             17:30          8        83          0          91      0      0       0             0     0     116       69          185      91       0       0          91         367
             17:45         13        93          0         106      0      0       0             0     0     113       77          190      84       0       0          84         380
              Total        51       387          0         438      0      0       0             0     0     491      303          794     367       0       0         367        1599

             18:00         18        90          0         108      0      0       0             0     0     109       76          185      79       0       0          79         372
             18:15         11       102          0         113      0      0       0             0     0      99       59          158      90       0       0          90         361
             18:30         15        82          0          97      0      0       0             0     0     105       62          167      63       0       0          63         327
             18:45         14        89          0         103      0      0       0             0     0      76       71          147      70       0       0          70         320
              Total        58       363          0         421      0      0       0             0     0     389      268          657     302       0       0         302        1380

      Grand Total         148     1165           0        1313      0      0       0             0     0    1467       897        2364    1023       0       0        1023        4700
        Apprch %         11.3      88.7          0                  0      0       0                   0     62.1     37.9                  100      0       0
          Total %          3.1     24.8          0        27.9      0      0       0             0     0     31.2     19.1        50.3     21.8      0       0         21.8




                                    BROADWAY                                  0                          BROADWAY                                 COLLEGE AV
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                          Northbound                             Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT    TH       LT    App. Total    RT     TH      LT      App. Total     RT     TH       LT App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00           12      126           0       138       0      0       0            0      0     152       78         230     100       0        0        100         468
             16:15            4      105           0       109       0      0       0            0      0     151       82         233      70       0        0         70         412
             16:30           11        84          0        95       0      0       0            0      0     154       76         230     107       0        0        107         432
             16:45           12      100           0       112       0      0       0            0      0     130       90         220      77       0        0         77         409
     Total Volume            39      415           0       454       0      0       0            0      0     587      326         913     354       0        0        354        1721
     % App. Total           8.6     91.4           0                 0      0       0                   0    64.3     35.7                 100       0        0
              PHF         .813      .823        .000      .822    .000   .000    .000        .000    .000    .953     .906        .980    .827    .000     .000        .827        .919
                                                                                                MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                            File Name                : broadway-coronado-p
                                                                                                                                                                           Site Code                :4
fp                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date               : 5/11/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                        Page No                  :1


                                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                                            SAFEWAY D/W                        BROADWAY                                         CORONADO AV
                                   Southbound                                           Westbound                             Northbound                                     Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT                   App. Total      RT      TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH   U-turn        App. Total         RT      TH       LT App. Total              Int. Total
             16:00         0       186        3                           189     5       0       3           8         2     270        6              278          11        0        2       13                     488
             16:15         0       162        3                           165     3       0       1           4         0     230        5              235          15        0        6       21                     425
             16:30         0       210        8                           218     4       0       2           6         0     307        5              312          11        0        3       14                     550
             16:45         0       204        4                           208     6       0       1           7         1     308        0              309          13        0        4       17                     541
              Total        0       762       18                           780    18       0       7         25          3    1115       16             1134          50        0       15       65                    2004

             17:00          0       193                    2              195     7        0        3             10          0    340       5          345           5                 0           2        7        557
             17:15          0       190                    4              194     6        0        0              6          0    306       2          308           9                 0           6       15        523
             17:30          0       180                    2              182     4        0        2              6          1    292       5          298          13                 0           4       17        503
             17:45          0       212                    3              215     5        0        2              7          0    329       2          331           9                 0           7       16        569
              Total         0       775                   11              786    22        0        7             29          1   1267      14         1282          36                 0          19       55       2152

      Grand Total           0     1537                     29            1566     40       0       14             54        4     2382      30         2416           86                0           34     120       4156
        Apprch %            0      98.1                   1.9                   74.1       0     25.9                     0.2      98.6    1.2                      71.7                0         28.3
          Total %           0        37                   0.7            37.7      1       0      0.3             1.3     0.1      57.3    0.7         58.1          2.1                0          0.8     2.9




                                    BROADWAY                                           SAFEWAY D/W                            BROADWAY                                     CORONADO AV
                                    Southbound                                          Westbound                                Northbound                                  Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total                  RT      TH      LT App. Total             RT     TH   U-turn     App. Total         RT      TH       LT App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:30
             16:30            0      210            8      218                     4       0        2              6         0      307       5         312           11           0                 3      14        550
             16:45            0      204            4      208                     6       0        1              7         1      308       0         309           13           0                 4      17        541
             17:00            0      193            2      195                     7       0        3             10         0      340       5         345            5           0                 2       7        557
             17:15            0      190            4      194                     6       0        0              6         0      306       2         308            9           0                 6      15        523
     Total Volume             0      797           18      815                    23       0        6             29         1    1261       12        1274           38           0                15      53       2171
     % App. Total             0     97.8          2.2                           79.3       0     20.7                      0.1       99     0.9                     71.7           0              28.3
              PHF         .000      .949        .563      .935                  .821    .000     .500            .725    .250      .927   .600         .923         .731        .000              .625    .779        .974


                                                                                                          BROADWAY
                                                                                                   Out       In    Total
                                                                                                   1299       815   2114


                                                                                                             0     797     18
                                                                                                        RT        TH     LT




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                                     65
                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                 15




                                                                                                                                                                             19
                                                                                                                                                               RT
                                                                LT
                                      CORONADO AV




                                                                                                                                                                               SAFEWAY D/W




                                                                                                                 North
                                                                                                                                                                23
                                             53


                                                                0
                                           In




                                                                    TH




                                                                                                                                                               TH




                                                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 16:30
                                                                                                                                                                                      29
                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                  Vehicles Only
                                                                 38
                                       12



                                                                RT




                                                                                                                                                               LT
                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                    6


                                                                                                                                                                                             48




                                                                                                    U-turn       TH      RT
                                                                                                        12       1261         1


                                                                                                    841  1274              2115
                                                                                                   Out    In              Total
                                                                                                   BROADWAY
                                                                                   MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                     File Name    : broadway-coronado-s
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code    :4
fp                                                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                 Page No      :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                              SAFEWAY DWY                         BROADWAY                               CORONADO AVE
                                   Southbound                              Westbound                            Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT       App. Total    RT      TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH   U-turn    App. Total    RT      TH       LT App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0       210        8            218      6       0        0           6         0    219        4          223     10        0        2       12          459
             16:15         0       179        2            181      4       0        0           4         0    218        6          224      5        0        4         9         418
             16:30         0       191        6            197      5       0        0           5         0    216        6          222      8        0        4       12          436
             16:45         0       179        4            183      2       0        0           2         0    216        3          219      6        0        3         9         413
              Total        0       759       20            779     17       0        0         17          0    869       19          888     29        0       13       42         1726

             17:00          0       186         6          192      4        0        0         4        0      217        6          223      9        0         8       17        436
             17:15          0       199         5          204      2        0        1         3        1      188        2          191      6        1         2        9        407
             17:30          0       169         7          176      3        0        0         3        0      178        4          182      7        0         2        9        370
             17:45          0       175         4          179      3        0        1         4        0      189        3          192      9        0         0        9        384
              Total         0       729        22          751     12        0        2        14        1      772       15          788     31        1        12       44       1597

             18:00          0       169         4          173      3        0        0         3        1      179        2          182      6        0         3        9        367
             18:15          0       182         5          187      3        0        1         4        0      151        2          153     11        0         1       12        356
             18:30          0       153         1          154      6        0        1         7        0      158        2          160     10        0         3       13        334
             18:45          0       164         4          168      5        0        0         5        0      147        1          148     12        0         2       14        335
              Total         0       668        14          682     17        0        2        19        1      635        7          643     39        0         9       48       1392

      Grand Total           0     2156          56        2212     46        0        4        50         2    2276       41         2319      99        1      34       134       4715
        Apprch %            0      97.5        2.5                 92        0        8                 0.1     98.1     1.8                 73.9      0.7    25.4
          Total %           0      45.7        1.2        46.9      1        0      0.1        1.1        0     48.3     0.9         49.2     2.1        0     0.7       2.8




                                    BROADWAY                             SAFEWAY DWY                       BROADWAY                                 CORONADO AVE
                                    Southbound                             Westbound                          Northbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT      TH       LT App. Total       RT     TH   U-turn      App. Total    RT      TH       LT App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00            0      210            8      218       6       0        0         6        0      219         4         223      10        0       2        12        459
             16:15            0      179            2      181       4       0        0         4        0      218         6         224       5        0       4         9        418
             16:30            0      191            6      197       5       0        0         5        0      216         6         222       8        0       4        12        436
             16:45            0      179            4      183       2       0        0         2        0      216         3         219       6        0       3         9        413
     Total Volume             0      759           20      779      17       0        0        17        0      869        19         888      29        0      13        42       1726
     % App. Total             0     97.4          2.6              100       0        0                  0     97.9       2.1                  69        0      31
              PHF         .000      .904        .625      .893    .708    .000     .000       .708    .000     .992     .792         .991    .725     .000    .813      .875        .940
                                                                                    MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                   File Name               : broadway-north dwy-p
                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code               :5
fp                                                                                                                                                                Start Date              : 5/13/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                               Page No                 :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                            SAFEWAY NORTH DWY                     BROADWAY                                                         0
                                   Southbound                              Westbound                            Northbound                                               Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT          App. Total    RT    TH      LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT             App. Total         RT            TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0          0       0                  0    51     0       0         51         11      0        0                   11           0              0       0                    0          62
             16:15         0          0       0                  0    34     0       0         34          9      0        0                    9           0              0       0                    0          43
             16:30         0          0       0                  0    32     0       0         32          8      0        0                    8           0              0       0                    0          40
             16:45         0          0       0                  0    31     0       0         31          4      0        0                    4           0              0       0                    0          35
              Total        0          0       0                  0   148     0       0        148         32      0        0                   32           0              0       0                    0         180

             17:00          0         0             0            0    40       0       0              40              5     0      0            5             0                0          0             0         45
             17:15          0         0             0            0    39       0       0              39              7     0      0            7             0                0          0             0         46
             17:30          0         0             0            0    43       0       0              43             10     0      0           10             0                0          0             0         53
             17:45          0         0             0            0    40       0       0              40              3     0      0            3             0                0          0             0         43
              Total         0         0             0            0   162       0       0             162             25     0      0           25             0                0          0             0        187

      Grand Total           0         0             0            0    310      0       0             310          57        0      0           57             0                0          0             0        367
        Apprch %            0         0             0                 100      0       0                         100        0      0                          0                0          0
          Total %           0         0             0            0   84.5      0       0             84.5       15.5        0      0         15.5             0                0          0             0




                                    BROADWAY                           SAFEWAY NORTH DWY                            BROADWAY                                                  0
                                    Southbound                             Westbound                                   Northbound                                        Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total       RT    TH      LT App. Total                RT     TH      LT      App. Total         RT            TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            0         0          0          0        40      0        0             40           5         0      0           5            0            0                0            0         45
             17:15            0         0          0          0        39      0        0             39           7         0      0           7            0            0                0            0         46
             17:30            0         0          0          0        43      0        0             43          10         0      0          10            0            0                0            0         53
             17:45            0         0          0          0        40      0        0             40           3         0      0           3            0            0                0            0         43
     Total Volume             0         0          0          0       162      0        0            162          25         0      0          25            0            0                0            0        187
     % App. Total             0         0          0                  100      0        0                        100         0      0                        0            0                0
              PHF         .000      .000        .000      .000       .942   .000     .000            .942       .625      .000   .000        .625         .000         .000             .000        .000         .882


                                                                                              BROADWAY
                                                                                       Out       In    Total
                                                                                        162         0   162


                                                                                                 0          0        0
                                                                                            RT        TH        LT




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                              0
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                  SAFEWAY NORTH DWY
                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                                     RT
                                                            LT




                                                                                                                                                     162




                                                                                                     North
                                                0


                                                        0
                                      In




                                                            TH




                                                                                                                                                     TH




                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                           162
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                     Vehicles Only
                                                        0
                                                0



                                                            RT




                                                                                                                                                     LT
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                                                 187




                                                                                            LT        TH        RT
                                                                                                 0          0    25


                                                                                           0   25                   25
                                                                                       Out   In                  Total
                                                                                       BROADWAY
                                                                                 MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                 File Name    : broadway-north dwy-s
                                                                                                                                                Site Code    :5
fp                                                                                                                                              Start Date   : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                             Page No      :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                         SAFEWAY NORTH DWY                     BROADWAY                                     0
                                   Southbound                           Westbound                            Northbound                           Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT       App. Total    RT    TH      LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT    App. Total    RT      TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0          0       0               0    31     0       0         31          5      0        0           5      0        0       0             0          36
             16:15         0          0       0               0    36     0       0         36          6      0        0           6      0        0       0             0          42
             16:30         0          0       0               0    37     0       0         37         12      0        0          12      0        0       0             0          49
             16:45         0          0       0               0    37     0       0         37          8      0        0           8      0        0       0             0          45
              Total        0          0       0               0   141     0       0        141         31      0        0          31      0        0       0             0         172

             17:00          0         0         0             0    34       0       0        34       10       0       0           10      0        0        0            0         44
             17:15          0         0         0             0    40       0       0        40        5       0       0            5      0        0        0            0         45
             17:30          0         0         0             0    30       0       0        30        4       0       0            4      0        0        0            0         34
             17:45          0         0         0             0    30       0       0        30        3       0       0            3      0        0        0            0         33
              Total         0         0         0             0   134       0       0       134       22       0       0           22      0        0        0            0        156

             18:00          0         0         0             0    28       0       0        28        5       0       0            5      0        0        0            0          33
             18:15          0         0         0             0    13       0       0        13        3       0       0            3      0        0        0            0          16
             18:30          0         0         0             0    19       0       0        19        3       0       0            3      0        0        0            0          22
             18:45          0         0         0             0    17       0       0        17        3       0       0            3      0        0        0            0          20
              Total         0         0         0             0    77       0       0        77       14       0       0           14      0        0        0            0          91

      Grand Total           0         0         0             0   352       0       0       352       67       0       0           67      0        0        0            0        419
        Apprch %            0         0         0                 100       0       0                100       0       0                   0        0        0
          Total %           0         0         0             0    84       0       0        84       16       0       0           16      0        0        0            0




                                    BROADWAY                        SAFEWAY NORTH DWY                   BROADWAY                                       0
                                    Southbound                          Westbound                          Northbound                             Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT    TH      LT App. Total       RT     TH      LT      App. Total    RT      TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:30
             16:30            0         0          0          0     37      0        0       37       12       0        0          12       0       0       0             0         49
             16:45            0         0          0          0     37      0        0       37        8       0        0           8       0       0       0             0         45
             17:00            0         0          0          0     34      0        0       34       10       0        0          10       0       0       0             0         44
             17:15            0         0          0          0     40      0        0       40        5       0        0           5       0       0       0             0         45
     Total Volume             0         0          0          0    148      0        0      148       35       0        0          35       0       0       0             0        183
     % App. Total             0         0          0               100      0        0               100       0        0                   0       0       0
              PHF         .000      .000        .000      .000    .925   .000     .000      .925    .729    .000     .000        .729    .000    .000    .000         .000         .934
                                                                                    MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                  File Name              : broadway-south dwy-p
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code              :6
fp                                                                                                                                                               Start Date             : 5/13/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                              Page No                :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                            SAFEWAY SOUTH DWY                     BROADWAY                                                        0
                                   Southbound                              Westbound                            Northbound                                              Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT          App. Total    RT    TH      LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT            App. Total         RT            TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0          0       0                  0     8     0       0           8        45      0        0                  45           0              0       0                    0          53
             16:15         0          0       0                  0     6     0       0           6        41      0        0                  41           0              0       0                    0          47
             16:30         0          0       0                  0    15     0       0         15         54      0        0                  54           0              0       0                    0          69
             16:45         0          0       0                  0    10     0       0         10         55      0        0                  55           0              0       0                    0          65
              Total        0          0       0                  0    39     0       0         39       195       0        0                 195           0              0       0                    0         234

             17:00          0         0             0            0    14       0       0              14          44       0      0           44             0                0          0             0         58
             17:15          0         0             0            0    16       0       0              16          55       0      0           55             0                0          0             0         71
             17:30          0         0             0            0     9       0       0               9          68       0      0           68             0                0          0             0         77
             17:45          0         0             0            0    13       0       0              13          35       0      0           35             0                0          0             0         48
              Total         0         0             0            0    52       0       0              52         202       0      0          202             0                0          0             0        254

      Grand Total           0         0             0            0     91      0       0              91         397       0      0          397             0                0          0             0        488
        Apprch %            0         0             0                 100      0       0                         100       0      0                          0                0          0
          Total %           0         0             0            0   18.6      0       0             18.6       81.4       0      0         81.4             0                0          0             0




                                    BROADWAY                           SAFEWAY SOUTH DWY                             BROADWAY                                                0
                                    Southbound                             Westbound                                    Northbound                                      Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total       RT    TH      LT App. Total                 RT     TH      LT    App. Total         RT            TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:45
             16:45            0         0          0          0        10       0       0             10          55        0      0          55            0            0                0            0         65
             17:00            0         0          0          0        14       0       0             14          44        0      0          44            0            0                0            0         58
             17:15            0         0          0          0        16       0       0             16          55        0      0          55            0            0                0            0         71
             17:30            0         0          0          0         9       0       0              9          68        0      0          68            0            0                0            0         77
     Total Volume             0         0          0          0        49       0       0             49         222        0      0         222            0            0                0            0        271
     % App. Total             0         0          0                  100       0       0                        100        0      0                        0            0                0
              PHF         .000      .000        .000      .000       .766    .000    .000            .766       .816     .000   .000        .816         .000         .000             .000        .000         .880


                                                                                              BROADWAY
                                                                                       Out       In    Total
                                                                                         49         0     49


                                                                                                 0          0        0
                                                                                            RT        TH        LT




                                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                              0
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                 SAFEWAY SOUTH DWY
                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  222
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                    RT
                                                            LT




                                                                                                     North
                                                                                                                                                     49
                                                0


                                                        0
                                      In




                                                            TH




                                                                                                                                                    TH




                                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 16:45
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                           49
                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                      Vehicles Only
                                                        0
                                                0



                                                            RT




                                                                                                                                                    LT
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                                                271




                                                                                            LT        TH        RT
                                                                                                 0          0    222


                                                                                           0  222                 222
                                                                                       Out   In                  Total
                                                                                       BROADWAY
                                                                                 MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                 File Name    : broadway-south dwy-s
                                                                                                                                                Site Code    :6
fp                                                                                                                                              Start Date   : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                             Page No      :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                         SAFEWAY SOUTH DWY                     BROADWAY                                     0
                                   Southbound                           Westbound                            Northbound                           Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT       App. Total    RT    TH      LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT    App. Total    RT      TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0          0       0               0     7     0       0           7        39      0        0          39      0        0       0             0          46
             16:15         0          0       0               0     5     0       0           5        49      0        0          49      0        0       0             0          54
             16:30         0          0       0               0    13     0       0         13         36      0        0          36      0        0       0             0          49
             16:45         0          0       0               0    15     0       0         15         40      0        0          40      0        0       0             0          55
              Total        0          0       0               0    40     0       0         40       164       0        0         164      0        0       0             0         204

             17:00          0         0         0             0     4       0       0          4      51       0       0           51      0        0        0            0         55
             17:15          0         0         0             0    15       0       0         15      45       0       0           45      0        0        0            0         60
             17:30          0         0         0             0    11       0       0         11      37       0       0           37      0        0        0            0         48
             17:45          0         0         0             0     6       0       0          6      56       0       0           56      0        0        0            0         62
              Total         0         0         0             0    36       0       0         36     189       0       0          189      0        0        0            0        225

             18:00          0         0         0             0     6       0       0          6      37       0       0           37      0        0        0            0         43
             18:15          0         0         0             0     3       0       0          3      36       0       0           36      0        0        0            0         39
             18:30          0         0         0             0     7       0       0          7      22       0       0           22      0        0        0            0         29
             18:45          0         0         0             0     6       0       0          6      41       0       0           41      0        0        0            0         47
              Total         0         0         0             0    22       0       0         22     136       0       0          136      0        0        0            0        158

      Grand Total           0         0         0             0     98      0       0         98     489       0       0          489      0        0        0            0        587
        Apprch %            0         0         0                  100      0       0                100       0       0                   0        0        0
          Total %           0         0         0             0   16.7      0       0       16.7    83.3       0       0         83.3      0        0        0            0




                                    BROADWAY                        SAFEWAY SOUTH DWY                   BROADWAY                                       0
                                    Southbound                          Westbound                          Northbound                             Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT    TH      LT App. Total       RT     TH      LT      App. Total    RT      TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            0         0          0          0      4       0       0         4      51        0       0          51       0        0      0             0         55
             17:15            0         0          0          0     15       0       0        15      45        0       0          45       0        0      0             0         60
             17:30            0         0          0          0     11       0       0        11      37        0       0          37       0        0      0             0         48
             17:45            0         0          0          0      6       0       0         6      56        0       0          56       0        0      0             0         62
     Total Volume             0         0          0          0     36       0       0        36     189        0       0         189       0        0      0             0        225
     % App. Total             0         0          0               100       0       0               100        0       0                   0        0      0
              PHF         .000      .000        .000      .000    .600    .000    .000      .600    .844     .000    .000        .844    .000     .000   .000         .000         .907
                                                                                     MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                                   File Name     : broadway-51-p
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Site Code     :7
fp                                                                                                                                                                                                Start Date    : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                               Page No       :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                     BROADWAY                              PLEASANT VALLEY RD                    BROADWAY                                                               51st ST
                                     Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                                        Eastbound
      Start Time        RT        TH       LT U-turn        App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT     TH      LT                  App. Total          RT                TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
            16:00       20        69       74     13              176     74     76      22        172        36    196      24                        256           14               102       34                 150          754
            16:15       18        64       77     17              176     82     72      24        178        42    184      27                        253           16               112       36                 164          771
            16:30       21        72       96     22              211     88     78      28        194        35    167      23                        225           15                84       49                 148          778
            16:45       21        62       97     24              204     73     93      39        205        38    186      18                        242           18               134       48                 200          851
             Total      80       267      344     76              767    317    319     113        749       151    733      92                        976           63               432      167                 662         3154

            17:00        33       54         91       23          201    109      83          35            227           43      175     31          249             16              176             59          251          928
            17:15        25       61        106       19          211     80      94          32            206           41      204     23          268             21              199             58          278          963
            17:30        23       80         74       20          197     77     108          37            222           36      187     23          246             22              223             64          309          974
            17:45        22       64        139        8          233     82      82          40            204           39      233     27          299             20              118             64          202          938
             Total      103      259        410       70          842    348     367         144            859          159      799    104         1062             79              716            245         1040         3803

     Grand Total        183       526        754     146        1609      665     686        257           1608           310    1532    196         2038            142           1148               412        1702         6957
       Apprch %        11.4      32.7       46.9      9.1                41.4    42.7          16                        15.2     75.2    9.6                         8.3           67.5             24.2
         Total %         2.6       7.6      10.8      2.1        23.1      9.6     9.9        3.7          23.1            4.5      22    2.8         29.3              2           16.5               5.9        24.5




                                        BROADWAY                           PLEASANT VALLEY RD                               BROADWAY                                                   51st ST
                                        Southbound                             Westbound                                       Northbound                                             Eastbound
      Start Time           RT        TH        LT U-turn    App. Total    RT    TH     LT App. Total                      RT    TH      LT       App. Total          RT               TH       LT            App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:30 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:45
            16:45          21        62        97      24         204      73      93         39            205            38     186       18        242           18               134               48         200          851
            17:00          33        54        91      23         201     109      83         35            227            43     175       31        249           16               176               59         251          928
            17:15          25        61       106      19         211      80      94         32            206            41     204       23        268           21               199               58         278          963
            17:30          23        80        74      20         197      77     108         37            222            36     187       23        246           22               223               64         309          974
    Total Volume          102       257       368      86         813     339     378        143            860           158     752       95       1005           77               732              229        1038         3716
    % App. Total         12.5      31.6      45.3    10.6                39.4      44       16.6                         15.7    74.8      9.5                     7.4              70.5             22.1
             PHF         .773      .803      .868    .896        .963    .778    .875       .917           .947          .919    .922    .766         .938       .875               .821             .895         .840         .954


                                                                                                 BROADWAY
                                                                                          Out       In    Total
                                                                                          1320       813   2133


                                                                                          102        257    368   86
                                                                                         RT         TH     LT U-turn




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                         1613
                                         Total




                                                                                                                                                                            PLEASANT VALLEY RD
                                                                                                                                                                            1258
                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                   229




                                                                                                                                                              RT
                                                   LT




                                                                                                                                                              339




                                                                                                      North
                                        1038
                                     51st ST




                                                    732
                                         In




                                                   TH




                                                                                                                                                              TH




                                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                               378




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 16:45
                                                                                                                                                                                     860




                                                                                         Vehicles Only
                                                    77
                                          575



                                                   RT




                                                                                                                                                              LT
                                                                                                                                                              143
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                           2118




                                                                                             LT        TH         RT
                                                                                               95       752        158


                                                                                           477  1005                1482
                                                                                          Out    In                Total
                                                                                          BROADWAY
                                                                                     MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                  File Name     : broadway-51-s
                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code     :7
fp                                                                                                                                                               Start Date    : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                              Page No       :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                      BROADWAY                              PLEASANT VALLEY AV                    BROADWAY                                  51st ST
                                      Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                           Eastbound
      Start Time         RT        TH       LT U-turn        App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT     TH      LT    App. Total    RT       TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
            16:00        11        58      128     18              215     84    108      42        234        27     92      16          135     12       99       36            147          731
            16:15        15        62       96     15              188     81    113      33        227        33    103      18          154     11      111       34            156          725
            16:30        18        49      124      9              200     79    104      38        221        26    101      18          145     10      108       36            154          720
            16:45        24        45       98     16              183     85    106      27        218        21     94      13          128     13      102       31            146          675
             Total       68       214      446     58              786    329    431     140        900       107    390      65          562     46      420      137            603         2851

            17:00        19        54        98        20          191     81     100      25       206      22      90       17          129      10      98        35           143         669
            17:15        11        51       136        22          220     67     105      28       200      33      75       20          128      19      84        31           134         682
            17:30        18        53        79        12          162     72     107      37       216      16      69       26          111      11      96        30           137         626
            17:45        17        52       105        18          192     80      83      34       197      26      76       21          123      11      68        31           110         622
             Total       65       210       418        72          765    300     395     124       819      97     310       84          491      51     346       127           524        2599

            18:00        23        47        90         8          168     66      87      20       173      23      85       15          123      18      86        30           134         598
            18:15        14        48       114        10          186     69     100      27       196      21      73       16          110      11      84        21           116         608
            18:30        20        44        83         8          155     49      72      27       148      24      75       15          114      13      90        29           132         549
            18:45         8        61        96         9          174     66      88      15       169      23      65       20          108      11      56        30            97         548
             Total       65       200       383        35          683    250     347      89       686      91     298       66          455      53     316       110           479        2303

     Grand Total        198       624     1247        165        2234      879   1173     353      2405     295      998     215        1508     150     1082        374        1606         7753
       Apprch %          8.9     27.9      55.8        7.4                36.5    48.8   14.7              19.6     66.2    14.3                  9.3     67.4      23.3
         Total %         2.6        8      16.1        2.1        28.8    11.3    15.1     4.6       31      3.8    12.9      2.8        19.5     1.9       14        4.8        20.7




                                        BROADWAY                            PLEASANT VALLEY AV                 BROADWAY                                    51st ST
                                        Southbound                              Westbound                         Northbound                              Eastbound
      Start Time           RT        TH        LT U-turn     App. Total    RT    TH     LT App. Total        RT    TH      LT       App. Total    RT      TH       LT       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
            16:00           11       58       128       18         215      84    108      42       234      27       92      16          135       12     99         36          147         731
            16:15           15       62        96       15         188      81    113      33       227      33      103      18          154       11    111         34          156         725
            16:30           18       49       124        9         200      79    104      38       221      26      101      18          145       10    108         36          154         720
            16:45           24       45        98       16         183      85    106      27       218      21       94      13          128       13    102         31          146         675
    Total Volume            68      214       446       58         786     329    431     140       900     107      390      65          562       46    420        137          603        2851
    % App. Total           8.7     27.2      56.7      7.4                36.6   47.9    15.6                19     69.4    11.6                   7.6   69.7       22.7
             PHF         .708      .863      .871    .806         .914    .968   .954    .833      .962    .811     .947    .903         .912    .885    .946       .951         .966         .975
                                                                                        MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                    File Name    : broadway-45-p
                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code    :8
fp                                                                                                                                                                                 Start Date   : 5/5/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                Page No      :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                                    WHITMORE ST                        BROADWAY                                          45th ST
                                   Southbound                                   Westbound                            Northbound                                    Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT           App. Total      RT     TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT       App. Total     RT           TH       LT              App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         7       128        6                   141    16       3       2         21          0    186      26             212      15             2        7                    24          398
             16:15         5       116        7                   128    10       1       4         15          1    280      22             303       8             1       11                    20          466
             16:30         3       124        7                   134    11       3       2         16          3    253      21             277       4             1        6                    11          438
             16:45         8       113        7                   128    13       4       5         22          3    258      18             279      12             2        8                    22          451
              Total       23       481       27                   531    50      11      13         74          7    977      87            1071      39             6       32                    77         1753

             17:00          6       108            5              119     5       2        4           11        2      278      20          300      12                 1            14           27         457
             17:15          6       108            4              118    12       4        4           20        4      272      20          296       8                 0            15           23         457
             17:30         14       108            5              127    13       5        7           25        9      312      16          337      10                 3            11           24         513
             17:45          6       119            3              128    10       3       10           23        4      291      20          315      17                 1            11           29         495
              Total        32       443           17              492    40      14       25           79       19     1153      76         1248      47                 5            51          103        1922

      Grand Total          55       924            44            1023     90      25      38          153       26     2130    163          2319       86            11                83         180        3675
        Apprch %          5.4      90.3           4.3                   58.8    16.3    24.8                   1.1      91.8      7                  47.8           6.1              46.1
          Total %         1.5      25.1           1.2            27.8    2.4     0.7       1           4.2     0.7        58    4.4         63.1      2.3           0.3               2.3          4.9




                                    BROADWAY                                   WHITMORE ST                         BROADWAY                                         45th ST
                                    Southbound                                  Westbound                             Northbound                                   Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total          RT     TH       LT App. Total          RT     TH      LT      App. Total     RT           TH       LT              App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            6      108            5      119             5       2       4           11         2      278      20         300       12            1                 14          27         457
             17:15            6      108            4      118            12       4       4           20         4      272      20         296        8            0                 15          23         457
             17:30           14      108            5      127            13       5       7           25         9      312      16         337       10            3                 11          24         513
             17:45            6      119            3      128            10       3      10           23         4      291      20         315       17            1                 11          29         495
     Total Volume            32      443           17      492            40      14      25           79        19    1153       76        1248       47            5                 51         103        1922
     % App. Total           6.5        90         3.5                   50.6    17.7    31.6                    1.5     92.4     6.1                 45.6          4.9               49.5
              PHF         .571      .931        .850      .961          .769    .700    .625          .790    .528      .924   .950         .926     .691        .417                .850        .888         .937


                                                                                                 BROADWAY
                                                                                          Out       In    Total
                                                                                          1244       492   1736


                                                                                                32      443     17
                                                                                               RT      TH     LT




                                                                                       Peak Hour Data
                                           225
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                         51




                                                                                                                                                              41
                                                                                                                                                    RT
                                                        LT




                                                                                                                                                                WHITMORE ST




                                                                                                      North
                                                                                                                                                     40
                                          103
                                     45th ST




                                                        5
                                         In




                                                            TH




                                                                                                                                                    TH




                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                     14


                                                                                                                                                                       79




                                                                                         Vehicles Only
                                                         47
                                           122



                                                        RT




                                                                                                                                                    LT
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                     25


                                                                                                                                                                            120




                                                                                               LT     TH      RT
                                                                                                 76   1153     19


                                                                                           515  1248            1763
                                                                                          Out    In            Total
                                                                                          BROADWAY
                                                                                       MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                      File Name     : broadway-45-s
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code     :8
fp                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date    : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                  Page No       :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                    BROADWAY                                   WHITMORE ST                        BROADWAY                                        45th ST
                                    Southbound                                  Westbound                              Northbound                                Eastbound
      Start Time        RT       TH      LT U-turn         App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total       RT      TH      LT U-turn        App. Total    RT    TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
            16:00        3      100       3      3              109       5       2       6        13         1    129       5      3             138       2      0       5             7         267
            16:15        4       97       2      4              107      11       4       5        20         3    134       5      4             146       5      2       3            10         283
            16:30        2      114       1      3              120       5       0       4          9        1    136       1      6             144       8      0       2            10         283
            16:45        3       98       3      2              106       6       2       2        10         1    121       5      8             135       2      0       1             3         254
             Total      12      409       9     12              442      27       8     17         52         6    520      16     21             563      17      2      11            30        1087

           17:00         0       74         1         2          77       5        0      2            7       1     118       3        7         129       1       0        3           4         217
           17:15         7       97         4         5         113       3        1      7           11       0     105       5        2         112       4       1        3           8         244
           17:30         2      101         0         3         106       7        0      1            8       1     110       4        3         118      10       2        1          13         245
           17:45         2      101         5         2         110       6        0      8           14       2     118       4        6         130       3       0        2           5         259
            Total       11      373        10        12         406      21        1     18           40       4     451      16       18         489      18       3        9          30         965

           18:00         3       82         5         0          90       4        1       4           9       1     105       5        4         115        3      1      4             8         222
           18:15         2       92         2         1          97       2        1       3           6       1      99       4        3         107        2      0      5             7         217
           18:30         3       77         1         0          81       7        3       1          11       1      93       3        3         100        2      0      4             6         198
           18:45         3       80         2         0          85       9        1       1          11       0      87       4        1          92        1      1      2             4         192
            Total       11      331        10         1         353      22        6       9          37       3     384      16       11         414        8      2     15            25         829

     Grand Total         34    1113         29       25        1201       70      15      44        129       13    1355      48        50       1466       43      7      35           85        2881
       Apprch %         2.8     92.7       2.4      2.1                 54.3    11.6    34.1                 0.9     92.4    3.3       3.4                50.6    8.2    41.2
         Total %        1.2     38.6         1      0.9        41.7      2.4     0.5     1.5         4.5     0.5       47    1.7       1.7       50.9      1.5    0.2     1.2             3




                                       BROADWAY                                WHITMORE ST                          BROADWAY                                      45th ST
                                       Southbound                               Westbound                              Northbound                                Eastbound
                                                      U-
      Start Time        RT       TH        LT              App. Total    RT      TH      LT    App. Total    RT       TH      LT    U-turn   App. Total    RT     TH      LT     App. Total   Int. Total
                                                    turn
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
           16:00           3      100         3        3        109        5       2       6          13        1    129        5        3        138        2       0      5            7         267
           16:15           4       97          2       4        107       11       4       5          20        3    134        5        4        146        5       2      3           10         283
           16:30           2      114          1       3        120        5       0       4           9        1    136        1        6        144        8       0      2           10         283
           16:45           3       98          3       2        106        6       2       2          10        1    121        5        8        135        2       0      1            3         254
   Total Volume           12      409          9      12        442       27       8      17          52        6    520       16       21        563       17       2     11           30        1087
   % App. Total          2.7     92.5          2     2.7                51.9    15.4    32.7                  1.1   92.4      2.8      3.7                56.7     6.7   36.7
            PHF        .750      .897      .750    .750        .921     .614    .500    .708       .650     .500    .956    .800     .656        .964     .531   .250    .550        .750          .960
                                                                                                   MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                                  File Name     : broadway-40-p
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code     :9
fp                                                                                                                                                                                               Start Date    : 5/4/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                              Page No       :1


                                                                                                 Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                             BROADWAY                                    40th WY                              40th ST                           BROADWAY                                           40th ST
                             Southbound                              Southwestbound                         Westbound                              Northbound                                    Eastbound
    Start Time       RT        TH    LT       App. Total      RT         TH     LT    App. Total     RT      TH      LT App. Total             RT    TH    LT            App. Total     RT        TH      LT   App. Total   Int. Total
          16:00      20       104    14            138         8          0      0            8      14       47     16         77             16   147    28                  191      23        51      31        105         519
          16:15      23       104     5            132         1          0      0            1      16       30     10         56             29   131    25                  185      26        56      54        136         510
          16:30      21        84     6            111         5          0      0            5      17       46     18         81             12   149    33                  194      13        61      61        135         526
          16:45      22        96     6            124         5          0      0            5      10       37     14         61             11   171    28                  210      23        52      49        124         524
           Total     86       388    31            505        19          0      0          19       57     160      58        275             68   598   114                  780      85       220     195        500        2079

          17:00       22       85        6         113          2         0     0            2        17        41        9             67      17     214        27           258      29        57     61         147         587
          17:15       22       83        5         110          2         0     0            2        10        32       11             53      11     220        23           254      21        69     70         160         579
          17:30       17       99        5         121          6         0     0            6        19        36       10             65      11     205        22           238      28        57     68         153         583
          17:45       19       82        6         107          7         0     0            7         8        37        3             48       8     193        22           223      26        85     77         188         573
           Total      80      349       22         451         17         0     0           17        54       146       33            233      47     832        94           973     104       268    276         648        2322

   Grand Total       166      737       53         956          36        0     0           36       111        306       91           508    115     1430       208         1753      189        488    471      1148         4401
     Apprch %       17.4     77.1      5.5                    100         0     0                   21.9       60.2     17.9                   6.6     81.6     11.9                  16.5       42.5     41
       Total %        3.8    16.7      1.2        21.7         0.8        0     0           0.8       2.5         7      2.1         11.5      2.6     32.5       4.7         39.8      4.3      11.1   10.7       26.1




                             BROADWAY                                40th WY                                    40th ST                         BROADWAY                                           40th ST
                             Southbound                          Southwestbound                                Westbound                           Northbound                                    Eastbound
    Start Time        RT       TH       LT App. Total         RT     TH     LT        App. Total     RT        TH      LT        App. Total    RT   TH     LT            App. Total     RT        TH      LT   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
          17:00       22        85        6        113        2           0      0           2        17         41        9            67       17    214         27          258      29         57     61        147         587
          17:15       22        83        5        110        2           0      0           2        10         32       11            53       11    220         23          254      21         69     70        160         579
          17:30       17        99        5        121        6           0      0           6        19         36       10            65       11    205         22          238      28         57     68        153         583
          17:45       19        82        6        107        7           0      0           7         8         37        3            48        8    193         22          223      26         85     77        188         573
 Total Volume         80      349        22        451       17           0      0          17        54        146       33           233       47    832         94          973     104        268    276        648        2322
  % App. Total      17.7     77.4       4.9                 100           0      0                  23.2       62.7     14.2                    4.8   85.5        9.7                   16       41.4   42.6
           PHF      .909     .881     .917        .932     .607        .000   .000        .607      .711       .890     .750         .869     .691    .945      .870          .943    .897       .788   .896       .862         .989


                                                                                                            BROADWAY                                                                  40th WY
                                                                                                    Out        In    Total



                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                    1179        451   1630



                                                                                                                                                                        ut
                                                                                                                                                                     0


                                                                                                                                                                              In 17
                                                                                                        80        349       22
                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                               R


                                                                                                       RT        TH       LT
                                                                                                                                                                 T




                                                                                                                                                                                      To 17
                                                                                                                                                                                        ta
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                 TH




                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         LT




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                          968
                                         Total




                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                                                        337
                                                       276




                                                                                                                                                                             RT
                                                       LT




                                                                                                                North
                                                                                                                                                                              54
                                           648




                                                                                                                                                                                       40th ST
                                      40th ST




                                                        268
                                          In




                                                       TH




                                                                                                                                                                             TH




                                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                              146




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                                           233




                                                                                                   Vehicles Only
                                                       104
                                          320



                                                       RT




                                                                                                                                                                             LT
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                                              33


                                                                                                                                                                                        570




                                                                                                        LT       TH       RT
                                                                                                          94      832      47


                                                                                                     486   973                  1459
                                                                                                    Out   In                   Total
                                                                                                    BROADWAY
                                                                                                MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                  File Name    : broadway-40-s
                                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code    :9
fp                                                                                                                                                                               Start Date   : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                              Page No      :1


                                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                             BROADWAY                                 40th WY                              40th ST                    BROADWAY                                    40th ST
                             Southbound                           Southwestbound                         Westbound                       Northbound                             Eastbound
    Start Time       RT        TH    LT       App. Total    RT        TH     LT    App. Total     RT      TH      LT App. Total      RT    TH    LT        App. Total    RT      TH      LT   App. Total   Int. Total
          16:00      22        93     8            123       4         0      0            4        6      21       1        28       5    67    10              82      31      48      40        119         356
          16:15      21        82     4            107       7         0      0            7        3      28       1        32       3    97    10             110      32      46      50        128         384
          16:30      22       100     4            126       8         0      0            8        8      23       5        36       7    85    27             119      26      53      44        123         412
          16:45      28        82     3            113       2         0      0            2        3      20       8        31       5    92    15             112      30      31      36         97         355
           Total     93       357    19            469      21         0      0          21       20       92     15        127      20   341    62             423     119     178     170        467        1507

          17:00       23       70        3          96       5         0     0            5        3     28       4          35        6     78      24         108      31      40     40         111         355
          17:15       22       79        5         106       7         0     0            7        4     33       3          40        5     85      18         108      26      49     39         114         375
          17:30       19       83        9         111       4         0     0            4        3     17       6          26        9     79      21         109      28      27     29          84         334
          17:45       19       72        6          97       2         0     0            2        3     21       2          26        7     84      14         105      32      43     26         101         331
           Total      83      304       23         410      18         0     0           18       13     99      15         127       27    326      77         430     117     159    134         410        1395

          18:00       21       89        3         113       4         0     0            4        7     21       7          35        3     85      21         109      24      33     36          93         354
          18:15       16       76        4          96       1         0     0            1        3     15       6          24        4     81      22         107      32      42     36         110         338
          18:30       18       67        3          88       4         0     0            4        2     13       7          22        3     64      18          85      34      36     26          96         295
          18:45       12       59        6          77       3         0     0            3        3     11       3          17        2     65      22          89      28      37     39         104         290
           Total      67      291       16         374      12         0     0           12       15     60      23          98       12    295      83         390     118     148    137         403        1277

   Grand Total       243      952       58       1253        51        0     0           51        48    251     53         352       59     962    222       1243       354     485    441      1280         4179
     Apprch %       19.4       76      4.6                 100         0     0                   13.6   71.3   15.1                  4.7    77.4   17.9                 27.7    37.9   34.5
       Total %        5.8    22.8      1.4          30      1.2        0     0           1.2      1.1      6    1.3          8.4     1.4      23     5.3       29.7       8.5   11.6   10.6       30.6




                             BROADWAY                              40th WY                               40th ST                      BROADWAY                                    40th ST
                             Southbound                        Southwestbound                           Westbound                        Northbound                             Eastbound
    Start Time        RT       TH       LT App. Total       RT     TH     LT       App. Total     RT    TH      LT     App. Total    RT   TH     LT        App. Total    RT      TH      LT   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
          16:00       22        93        8        123        4        0      0           4         6     21      1          28         5     67     10          82       31      48     40        119         356
          16:15       21        82        4        107        7        0      0           7         3     28      1          32         3     97     10         110       32      46     50        128         384
          16:30       22      100         4        126        8        0      0           8         8     23      5          36         7     85     27         119       26      53     44        123         412
          16:45       28        82        3        113        2        0      0           2         3     20      8          31         5     92     15         112       30      31     36         97         355
 Total Volume         93      357        19        469       21        0      0          21        20     92     15         127        20    341     62         423      119     178    170        467        1507
  % App. Total      19.8     76.1       4.1                 100        0      0                  15.7   72.4   11.8                   4.7   80.6   14.7                 25.5    38.1   36.4
           PHF      .830     .893     .594        .931     .656     .000   .000        .656      .625   .821   .469        .882     .714    .879   .574        .889     .930    .840   .850       .912         .914
                                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                         File Name              : broadway-macarthur-p
                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code              : 10
fp                                                                                                                                                                      Start Date             : 5/11/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                     Page No                :1


                                                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                                             MacARTUR BLVD                       BROADWAY                                    MacARTUR BLVD
                                   Southbound                                             Westbound                            Northbound                                 Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH       LT                    App. Total    RT        TH      LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT       App. Total      RT        TH      LT App. Total             Int. Total
             16:00        30        67       54                           151    63       101      23        187         34    103      23             160       30        94       17      141                    639
             16:15        29        93       65                           187    55        84      18        157         28    112      25             165       14        96       16      126                    635
             16:30        24        87       78                           189    68        99      35        202         19    119      29             167       14       128       29      171                    729
             16:45        21       112       65                           198    69        69      26        164         26    123      26             175       18       124       19      161                    698
              Total      104       359      262                           725   255       353     102        710       107     457     103             667       76       442       81      599                   2701

             17:00         18        96                     61            175    67         84      29            180      20     127     32           179        14          101               26     141        675
             17:15         23        85                     62            170    65         93      22            180      32     135     30           197        16          121               21     158        705
             17:30         18        83                     55            156    67         80      20            167      22     147     34           203        15          129               17     161        687
             17:45         14        72                     50            136    69         90      20            179      14     119     20           153        11          105               25     141        609
              Total        73       336                    228            637   268        347      91            706      88     528    116           732        56          456               89     601       2676

      Grand Total        177        695                    490           1362    523       700     193           1416     195      985    219         1399      132           898              170    1200       5377
        Apprch %           13        51                      36                 36.9      49.4    13.6                   13.9     70.4   15.7                     11         74.8             14.2
          Total %         3.3      12.9                     9.1          25.3     9.7       13      3.6          26.3      3.6    18.3     4.1          26       2.5         16.7               3.2   22.3




                                    BROADWAY                                            MacARTUR BLVD                         BROADWAY                                  MacARTUR BLVD
                                    Southbound                                            Westbound                              Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total                  RT        TH      LT App. Total           RT     TH      LT     App. Total      RT        TH      LT App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:30
             16:30          24         87         78       189                    68        99      35            202      19      119     29          167         14         128               29     171        729
             16:45          21       112          65       198                    69        69      26            164      26      123     26          175         18         124               19     161        698
             17:00          18         96         61       175                    67        84      29            180      20      127     32          179         14         101               26     141        675
             17:15          23         85         62       170                    65        93      22            180      32      135     30          197         16         121               21     158        705
     Total Volume           86       380         266       732                   269       345     112            726      97      504    117          718         62         474               95     631       2807
     % App. Total         11.7      51.9        36.3                            37.1      47.5    15.4                   13.5     70.2   16.3                     9.8        75.1             15.1
              PHF         .896      .848        .853      .924                  .975      .871    .800           .899    .758     .933   .914         .911      .861         .926             .819    .923        .963


                                                                                                            BROADWAY
                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                      868       732   1600


                                                                                                           86      380    266
                                                                                                          RT      TH     LT




                                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                                    1179
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                         837
                                                                   95
                                      MacARTUR BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                          MacARTUR BLVD
                                                                                                                                                              RT
                                                                  LT




                                                                                                                                                              269




                                                                                                                 North
                                             631


                                                                   474
                                            In




                                                                  TH




                                                                                                                                                              TH




                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                               345




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 16:30
                                                                                                                                                                                 726




                                                                                                   Vehicles Only
                                                                   62
                                      548



                                                                  RT




                                                                                                                                                              LT
                                                                                                                                                              112
                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                      1563




                                                                                                          LT      TH     RT
                                                                                                           117     504    97


                                                                                                      554   718            1272
                                                                                                     Out   In             Total
                                                                                                     BROADWAY
                                                                                     MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                        File Name    : broadway-macarthur-s
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code    : 10
fp                                                                                                                                                     Start Date   : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                    Page No      :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   BROADWAY                               MacARTHUR BLVD                       BROADWAY                                MacARTHUR BLVD
                                   Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH       LT      App. Total    RT         TH      LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT     App. Total    RT         TH      LT App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        15        60       61            136     28         79       9        116         11     42      10            63     11         90       10      111          426
             16:15        19        64       52            135     44         79      14        137         14     71      12            97     12         78       13      103          472
             16:30        12        50       34             96     24         50       6         80         12     54        9           75      3         55       15       73          324
             16:45        13        62       55            130     32         75      14        121         16     79      24           119      8         77        9       94          464
              Total       59       236      202            497    128        283      43        454         53    246      55           354     34        300       47      381         1686

             17:00         10        54        53          117     33         82       13        128       14      59       14           87      16        89       16       121        453
             17:15         10        73        46          129     33         66       15        114       14      66       15           95       7        71        9        87        425
             17:30         16        65        43          124     39         72        4        115       17      60       12           89       8        70       13        91        419
             17:45         17        57        32          106     39         65        8        112       11      53        7           71      10        81       19       110        399
              Total        53       249       174          476    144        285       40        469       56     238       48          342      41       311       57       409       1696

             18:00          9        76        35          120     33         56        9         98        8      53       19           80       8        56       10        74        372
             18:15         13        56        41          110     34         76        4        114        7      56       13           76       3        67        8        78        378
             18:30         10        58        50          118     27         53        4         84        7      48        7           62       7        61        5        73        337
             18:45         11        51        39          101     35         66        6        107       10      52       14           76       3        70       13        86        370
              Total        43       241       165          449    129        251       23        403       32     209       53          294      21       254       36       311       1457

      Grand Total         155       726       541         1422     401        819     106      1326       141     693      156          990      96        865     140      1101       4839
        Apprch %         10.9      51.1        38                 30.2       61.8        8               14.2      70     15.8                  8.7       78.6    12.7
          Total %          3.2       15      11.2         29.4      8.3      16.9      2.2      27.4       2.9   14.3       3.2        20.5       2       17.9      2.9     22.8




                                    BROADWAY                          MacARTHUR BLVD                         BROADWAY                              MacARTHUR BLVD
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                              Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT    TH       LT App. Total           RT     TH      LT       App. Total    RT    TH       LT App. Total       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:45
             16:45           13        62         55       130      32         75       14       121       16      79       24          119        8        77       9        94        464
             17:00           10        54         53       117      33         82       13       128       14      59       14           87       16        89      16       121        453
             17:15           10        73         46       129      33         66       15       114       14      66       15           95        7        71       9        87        425
             17:30           16        65         43       124      39         72        4       115       17      60       12           89        8        70      13        91        419
     Total Volume            49      254         197       500     137        295       46       478       61     264       65          390       39       307      47       393       1761
     % App. Total           9.8     50.8        39.4              28.7       61.7      9.6               15.6    67.7     16.7                   9.9      78.1      12
              PHF         .766      .870        .895      .962    .878       .899    .767       .934     .897    .835     .677         .819    .609       .862    .734      .812        .949
                                                                                        MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                             File Name         : mlk-52-p
                                                                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 11
fp                                                                                                                                                                          Start Date        : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                         Page No           :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   MLK JR WY                                     52nd ST                             MLK JR WY                                     52nd ST
                                   Southbound                                   Westbound                            Northbound                                   Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH       LT            App. Total    RT     TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT         App. Total     RT        TH       LT    App. Total    Int. Total
             16:00         0       307       28                  335     43      12      32         87         13    337      35               385      16         10        7          33           840
             16:15         0       304       33                  337     46      22      35        103         17    314      35               366      13         14       11          38           844
             16:30         1       360       38                  399     45      11      36         92         18    322      33               373      23         25        4          52           916
             16:45         0       326       43                  369     56      14      38        108         22    379      29               430      20         29       12          61           968
              Total        1      1297      142                 1440    190      59     141        390         70   1352     132              1554      72         78       34         184          3568

             17:00          1      350             33            384     50       14      40             104       10     329     30           369       25        23      16           64          921
             17:15          1      384             46            431     44       11      47             102       12     405     30           447       17        25      13           55         1035
             17:30          0      386             47            433     43       25      33             101       29     407     38           474       18        19      14           51         1059
             17:45          3      322             40            365     44       12      21              77       20     381     34           435       23        12      19           54          931
              Total         5     1442            166           1613    181       62     141             384       71    1522    132          1725       83        79      62          224         3946

      Grand Total           6     2739             308          3053     371     121     282             774      141    2874    264          3279      155       157      96          408         7514
        Apprch %          0.2      89.7           10.1                  47.9    15.6    36.4                       4.3    87.6    8.1                     38     38.5    23.5
          Total %         0.1      36.5             4.1         40.6      4.9     1.6     3.8            10.3      1.9    38.2    3.5         43.6       2.1       2.1    1.3           5.4




                                      MLK JR WY                                  52nd ST                                 MLK JR WY                                 52nd ST
                                     Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time           RT         TH         LT App. Total          RT     TH       LT      App. Total        RT     TH      LT     App. Total     RT        TH       LT    App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:45
             16:45            0       326         43        369           56      14      38             108        22     379      29         430       20        29      12           61          968
             17:00            1       350         33        384           50      14      40             104        10     329      30         369       25        23      16           64          921
             17:15            1       384         46        431           44      11      47             102        12     405      30         447       17        25      13           55         1035
             17:30            0       386         47        433           43      25      33             101        29     407      38         474       18        19      14           51         1059
     Total Volume             2     1446         169      1617           193      64     158             415        73   1520     127         1720       80        96      55          231         3983
     % App. Total           0.1      89.4       10.5                    46.5    15.4    38.1                       4.2    88.4     7.4                 34.6      41.6    23.8
              PHF         .500       .937       .899       .934         .862    .640    .840             .961    .629     .934   .836         .907     .800      .828    .859         .902          .940


                                                                                                     MLK JR WY
                                                                                           Out           In    Total
                                                                                           1768         1617    3385


                                                                                                     2   1446     169
                                                                                                RT       TH      LT




                                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                                           424
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                338
                                                           55




                                                                                                                                                      RT
                                                          LT




                                                                                                                                                      193




                                                                                                         North
                                          231




                                                                                                                                                               52nd ST
                                     52nd ST




                                                           96
                                         In




                                                          TH




                                                                                                                                                      TH




                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 16:45
                                                                                                                                                                   415
                                                                                                                                                       64




                                                                                         Vehicles Only
                                                           80
                                           193



                                                          RT




                                                                                                                                                      LT
                                                                                                                                                      158
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                                753




                                                                                                LT       TH      RT
                                                                                                 127     1520     73


                                                                                           1684         1720    3404
                                                                                           Out           In    Total
                                                                                                     MLK JR WY
                                                                                MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                               File Name         : mlk-52-s
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code         : 11
fp                                                                                                                                                            Start Date        : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                           Page No           :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   MLK JR WY                              52nd ST                             MLK JR WY                              52nd ST
                                   Southbound                            Westbound                            Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH       LT      App. Total    RT    TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT     App. Total    RT      TH       LT    App. Total    Int. Total
             16:00         0       296       28            324     31     19      21         71         17    275      29           321     10       18       11          39           755
             16:15         3       313       24            340     36     20      17         73         15    264      32           311      9       17        6          32           756
             16:30         1       345       36            382     30     15      16         61         12    298      40           350      6       19       14          39           832
             16:45         1       316       39            356     29     17      14         60         12    280      30           322     19       11        6          36           774
              Total        5      1270      127           1402    126     71      68        265         56   1117     131          1304     44       65       37         146          3117

             17:00          1      333         29          363     28     10       17           55      17     248     28           293      12       9       3           24          735
             17:15          0      351         23          374     26     12       22           60      12     241     24           277      17      11       6           34          745
             17:30          2      319         30          351     25     11       12           48      13     288     35           336      12      14       7           33          768
             17:45          2      384         23          409     32     14       31           77      12     246     31           289      15      17      14           46          821
              Total         5     1387        105         1497    111     47       82          240      54    1023    118          1195      56      51      30          137         3069

             18:00          3      360         31          394     32     20       19           71       9     266     31           306      10      11       6           27          798
             18:15          1      365         39          405     39     16       13           68      14     242     30           286      15       9       4           28          787
             18:30          2      288         42          332     32     11       21           64      10     199     30           239       8      12      11           31          666
             18:45          1      325         19          345     27     20       24           71      16     238     39           293       8      10      10           28          737
              Total         7     1338        131         1476    130     67       77          274      49     945    130          1124      41      42      31          114         2988

      Grand Total          17     3995        363         4375     367    185     227          779    159     3085     379         3623     141     158      98          397         9174
        Apprch %          0.4      91.3        8.3                47.1   23.7    29.1                  4.4     85.2   10.5                 35.5    39.8    24.7
          Total %         0.2      43.5          4        47.7       4      2      2.5          8.5    1.7     33.6     4.1        39.5      1.5     1.7    1.1           4.3




                                      MLK JR WY                           52nd ST                             MLK JR WY                              52nd ST
                                     Southbound                          Westbound                            Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time           RT         TH         LT App. Total    RT    TH       LT     App. Total    RT      TH      LT     App. Total    RT      TH       LT    App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:30
             17:30            2       319          30       351     25     11      12           48       13     288     35          336      12      14       7           33          768
             17:45            2       384          23       409     32     14      31           77       12     246     31          289      15      17      14           46          821
             18:00            3       360          31       394     32     20      19           71        9     266     31          306      10      11       6           27          798
             18:15            1       365          39       405     39     16      13           68       14     242     30          286      15       9       4           28          787
     Total Volume             8     1428         123      1559     128     61      75          264       48   1042     127         1217      52      51      31          134         3174
     % App. Total           0.5      91.6         7.9             48.5   23.1    28.4                   3.9    85.6   10.4                 38.8    38.1    23.1
              PHF         .667       .930       .788       .953   .821   .763    .605         .857    .857     .905   .907         .906    .867    .750    .554         .728          .967
                                                                                          MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                            File Name      : shattuck-52-p
                                                                                                                                                                           Site Code      : 12
fp                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date     : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                        Page No        :1


                                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 SHATTUCK AV                                        52nd ST                          SHATTUCK AV                                     52nd ST
                                  Southbound                                      Westbound                              Northbound                                Eastbound
       Start Time         RT       TH       LT App. Total                 RT       TH       LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT      App. Total      RT        TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        85       47       22       154                  40      181       17        238          8      32      22             62       60       182       59           301          755
             16:15        99       58       29       186                  27      157       11        195          5      37      38             80       56       191       89           336          797
             16:30        92       40       36       168                  24      173       10        207         10      54      40            104       45       200       77           322          801
             16:45        92       26       18       136                  29      184        5        218          7      44      47             98       39       261       76           376          828
              Total      368      171      105       644                 120      695       43        858         30     167     147            344      200       834      301          1335         3181

             17:00        93         29             38             160    21      193        8            222       8      58      48           114       48       225       72           345         841
             17:15       101         45             36             182    24      189       14            227      13      67      37           117       36       238       78           352         878
             17:30        81         32             22             135    30      186        9            225      10      52      34            96       50       262       55           367         823
             17:45       111         45             38             194    34      168        7            209      11      44      27            82       43       221       80           344         829
              Total      386        151            134             671   109      736       38            883      42     221     146           409      177       946      285          1408        3371

      Grand Total         754       322             239           1315    229    1431       81           1741      72      388     293          753       377     1780       586         2743        6552
        Apprch %         57.3      24.5            18.2                  13.2     82.2     4.7                    9.6     51.5    38.9                   13.7      64.9     21.4
          Total %        11.5        4.9             3.6          20.1     3.5    21.8     1.2           26.6     1.1       5.9     4.5        11.5        5.8     27.2       8.9        41.9




                                   SHATTUCK AV                                     52nd ST                            SHATTUCK AV                                   52nd ST
                                    Southbound                                    Westbound                               Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total           RT      TH       LT      App. Total      RT      TH      LT     App. Total      RT       TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00          93         29         38       160             21     193         8           222       8       58      48          114        48       225       72          345         841
             17:15         101         45         36       182             24     189        14           227      13       67      37          117        36       238       78          352         878
             17:30          81         32         22       135             30     186         9           225      10       52      34           96        50       262       55          367         823
             17:45         111         45         38       194             34     168         7           209      11       44      27           82        43       221       80          344         829
     Total Volume          386       151         134       671            109     736        38           883      42      221     146          409       177       946      285         1408        3371
     % App. Total         57.5      22.5          20                     12.3    83.4       4.3                  10.3       54    35.7                   12.6      67.2     20.2
              PHF         .869      .839        .882      .865           .801    .953     .679           .972    .808     .825    .760         .874      .885      .903     .891         .959         .960


                                                                                                SHATTUCK AV
                                                                                            Out      In    Total
                                                                                             615      671   1286


                                                                                                   386     151    134
                                                                                                  RT      TH     LT




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                           2676
                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                 1122
                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                           285




                                                                                                                                                       RT
                                                           LT




                                                                                                                                                       109




                                                                                                         North
                                        1408




                                                                                                                                                                 52nd ST
                                     52nd ST




                                                            946
                                         In




                                                           TH




                                                                                                                                                       TH




                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                        736




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                     883




                                                                                           Vehicles Only
                                                           177
                                           1268



                                                           RT




                                                                                                                                                       LT
                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                        38


                                                                                                                                                                 2005




                                                                                                  LT      TH     RT
                                                                                                   146     221    42


                                                                                             366    409            775
                                                                                            Out    In             Total
                                                                                            SHATTUCK AV
                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                           File Name     : shattuck-52-s
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code     : 12
fp                                                                                                                                                        Start Date    : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                       Page No       :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 SHATTUCK AV                                 52nd ST                            SHATTUCK AV                          52nd ST
                                  Southbound                               Westbound                             Northbound                        Eastbound
       Start Time         RT       TH       LT App. Total          RT       TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT App. Total    RT       TH       LT   App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        77       52       23       152           33      165        5        203         11     43      45        99     54      174       78         306          760
             16:15       100       44       30       174           57      144        8        209          7     44      35        86     45      162       69         276          745
             16:30       113       39       28       180           29      156        9        194          4     40      33        77     33      149       66         248          699
             16:45        84       45       24       153           30      160        7        197          8     47      45       100     31      175       62         268          718
              Total      374      180      105       659          149      625       29        803         30    174     158       362    163      660      275        1098         2922

             17:00        94         47        25          166     54      124       11          189      11      46       35        92    31      148      66          245         692
             17:15        93         42        27          162     28      123        5          156      10      39       30        79    34      159      73          266         663
             17:30        91         36        29          156     27      131        7          165      11      60       43       114    29      144      83          256         691
             17:45       113         44        29          186     48      108        6          162       9      37       34        80    37      136      75          248         676
              Total      391        169       110          670    157      486       29          672      41     182      142       365   131      587     297         1015        2722

             18:00        96         41        28          165      23     144        6          173       5      34       40        79    28      132      61          221         638
             18:15        95         34        26          155      28     135        9          172      13      32       45        90    27      156      80          263         680
             18:30        92         54        35          181      23     142        9          174      11      35       38        84    40      132      68          240         679
             18:45       102         43        28          173      22     133        4          159       7      31       26        64    32      130      56          218         614
              Total      385        172       117          674      96     554       28          678      36     132      149       317   127      550     265          942        2611

      Grand Total       1150        521       332         2003     402    1665       86         2153     107      488     449      1044    421    1797      837        3055        8255
        Apprch %         57.4         26     16.6                 18.7     77.3       4                 10.2     46.7       43            13.8     58.8    27.4
          Total %        13.9        6.3        4         24.3      4.9    20.2       1         26.1      1.3      5.9     5.4     12.6     5.1    21.8    10.1          37




                                   SHATTUCK AV                              52nd ST                             SHATTUCK AV                         52nd ST
                                    Southbound                             Westbound                             Northbound                        Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT      TH       LT     App. Total    RT       TH      LT App. Total    RT      TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00          77         52         23       152      33     165         5         203       11      43      45        99     54     174       78         306         760
             16:15         100         44         30       174      57     144         8         209        7      44      35        86     45     162       69         276         745
             16:30         113         39         28       180      29     156         9         194        4      40      33        77     33     149       66         248         699
             16:45          84         45         24       153      30     160         7         197        8      47      45       100     31     175       62         268         718
     Total Volume          374       180         105       659     149     625        29         803       30     174     158       362    163     660      275        1098        2922
     % App. Total         56.8      27.3        15.9              18.6    77.8       3.6                  8.3    48.1    43.6             14.8    60.1       25
              PHF         .827      .865        .875      .915    .654    .947     .806         .961    .682     .926    .878      .905   .755    .943     .881        .897         .961
                                                                                               MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                        File Name    : telegraph-45-p
                                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code    : 13
fp                                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date   : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                    Page No      :1


                                                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                            TELEGRAPH AVE                                  45th ST                   TELEGRAPH AVE                                      45th ST                       SHATTUCK AVE
                              Southbound                                 Westbound                          Northbound                                Eastbound                       Southeastbound
     Start Time       RT        TH    LT App. Total             RT       TH       LT    App. Total   RT       TH      LT          App. Total    RT    TH       LT    App. Total       RT     TH App. Total   Int. Total
           16:00       3       121      6     130                9        10        5          24      4     166        9              179       9     11       10         30          8      54       62        425
           16:15       5       150      4     159                9        11        2          22      2     178        5              185      11     11        8         30         13      63       76        472
           16:30       6       133      9     148               17        14        7          38      7     174        2              183       9     15       13         37         12      54       66        472
           16:45       6       138      5     149               10          7       9          26      9     174        5              188      11       7       9         27         12      33       45        435
            Total     20       542     24     586               45        42       23        110     22      692       21              735      40     44       40        124         45    204      249        1804

          17:00         5      148         4           157           6    13       5          24           2      210        4         216      11      7      15          33          8      61       69        499
          17:15         0      115         4           119           4    13       5          22           5      194       13         212       5     18       9          32         11      54       65        450
          17:30         4      132         4           140           8     7       9          24           5      200        6         211       9     13       9          31         13      46       59        465
          17:45         4      118         5           127          14    13       6          33           3      182        2         187       6     11      12          29          8      52       60        436
           Total       13      513        17           543          32    46      25         103          15      786       25         826      31     49      45         125         40     213      253       1850

    Grand Total        33     1055       41           1129       77        88     48         213          37     1478       46        1561       71     93     85         249         85     417      502       3654
      Apprch %        2.9      93.4     3.6                    36.2      41.3   22.5                     2.4      94.7     2.9                 28.5   37.3   34.1                   16.9    83.1
        Total %       0.9      28.9     1.1           30.9      2.1       2.4    1.3          5.8          1      40.4     1.3        42.7      1.9    2.5    2.3          6.8       2.3    11.4      13.7




                           TELEGRAPH AVE                                  45th ST                        TELEGRAPH AVE                                 45th ST                        SHATTUCK AVE
                               Southbound                                Westbound                           Northbound                               Eastbound                       Southeastbound
     Start Time        RT        TH       LT App. Total         RT       TH      LT     App. Total       RT   TH     LT           App. Total    RT    TH      LT     App. Total       RT     TH App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:15
           16:15         5      150         4      159            9        11      2          22            2      178        5        185       11     11      8          30         13      63       76        472
           16:30         6      133         9      148           17        14      7          38            7      174        2        183        9     15     13          37         12      54       66        472
           16:45         6      138         5      149           10         7      9          26            9      174        5        188       11      7      9          27         12      33       45        435
           17:00         5      148         4      157            6        13      5          24            2      210        4        216       11      7     15          33          8      61       69        499
  Total Volume          22      569        22      613           42        45     23         110           20      736       16        772       42     40     45         127         45     211      256       1878
  % App. Total         3.6     92.8       3.6                  38.2      40.9   20.9                      2.6     95.3      2.1                33.1   31.5   35.4                   17.6    82.4
            PHF      .917      .948     .611      .964         .618      .804   .639        .724        .556      .876    .800        .894     .955   .667   .750        .858       .865    .837      .842       .941


                                      SHATTUCK AVE                                                     TELEGRAPH AVE
                                                          25 tal




                                                                                                     Out    In     Total
                                                            To
                                                            6




                                                                                                      823    613    1436
                                                 In
                                                      6
                                                  25




                                                                                                        22        569      22
                                                               TH 1
                                                               21




                                                                                                       RT        TH      LT
                                        ut
                                      O
                                           0



                                                        R 45
                                                         T




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                         255
                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                        45




                                                                                                                                                                              82
                                                                                                                                                               RT
                                                       LT




                                                                                                                North
                                                                                                                                                                42
                                           127




                                                                                                                                                                            45th ST
                                      45th ST




                                                        40
                                          In




                                                       TH




                                                                                                                                                               TH




                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 16:15
                                                                                                                                                                                110
                                                                                                                                                                45




                                                                                                 Vehicles Only
                                                        42
                                         128



                                                       RT




                                                                                                                                                               LT
                                        Out




                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                                23


                                                                                                                                                                             192




                                                                                                       LT        TH      RT
                                                                                                         16       736     20


                                                                                                      845     772   1617
                                                                                                     Out     In    Total
                                                                                                     TELEGRAPH AVE
                                                                                       MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                        File Name    : telegraph-45-s
                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code    : 13
fp                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date   : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                    Page No      :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                            TELEGRAPH AVE                          45th ST                   TELEGRAPH AVE                                 45th ST                    SHATTUCK AVE
                              Southbound                         Westbound                          Northbound                           Eastbound                    Southeastbound
     Start Time       RT        TH    LT App. Total        RT    TH       LT    App. Total   RT       TH      LT     App. Total    RT    TH       LT    App. Total    RT     TH App. Total   Int. Total
           16:00       4       154      4     162           8       5       5          18      4     146        5         155       3       3       8          14      9      59       68        417
           16:15       5       143      6     154           4       2       6          12      7     146        2         155       4       7       3          14     10      64       74        409
           16:30       4       130      3     137           5       8       3          16      9     141        4         154       4       7      11          22      6      47       53        382
           16:45       3       119      5     127           5       4      11          20      1     146        3         150       7       4       9          20     10      41       51        368
            Total     16       546     18     580          22     19       25          66    21      579       14         614      18     21       31          70     35    211      246        1576

          17:00         3      131        4        138      9     11       4           24       0     149       4         153       3      8       7           18      7      50       57        390
          17:15         3      124        4        131      7      3       4           14       6     143       3         152       8      5      11           24      7      56       63        384
          17:30         1      120        3        124      6     13       7           26       2     153       5         160       3      4      10           17      4      52       56        383
          17:45         3       99        3        105      5      6       1           12       0     121       2         123       6      3      11           20      7      41       48        308
           Total       10      474       14        498     27     33      16           76       8     566      14         588      20     20      39           79     25     199      224       1465

          18:00         3      140        4        147      7      5       7           19       0     143       3         146      12      6       6           24      7      34       41        377
          18:15         5      133        2        140     11      6       5           22       4     149       2         155       2      5      13           20      5      47       52        389
          18:30         4      112        3        119      5      3       2           10       0     115       3         118       4      2       6           12     10      52       62        321
          18:45         1      113        3        117      3      6       7           16       5     120       2         127       3      3       3            9     13      67       80        349
           Total       13      498       12        523     26     20      21           67       9     527      10         546      21     16      28           65     35     200      235       1436

    Grand Total        39     1518       44       1601      75     72     62         209       38    1672      38        1748       59     57     98         214       95    610      705       4477
      Apprch %        2.4      94.8     2.7               35.9   34.4   29.7                  2.2     95.7    2.2                 27.6   26.6   45.8                 13.5   86.5
        Total %       0.9      33.9       1       35.8     1.7    1.6    1.4          4.7     0.8     37.3    0.8           39     1.3    1.3    2.2          4.8     2.1   13.6      15.7




                           TELEGRAPH AVE                          45th ST                     TELEGRAPH AVE                               45th ST                     SHATTUCK AVE
                               Southbound                        Westbound                        Northbound                             Eastbound                    Southeastbound
     Start Time        RT        TH       LT App. Total    RT    TH      LT     App. Total    RT   TH     LT         App. Total    RT    TH      LT     App. Total    RT     TH App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
           16:00         4      154         4      162       8      5      5           18        4    146        5        155        3      3      8           14       9     59       68        417
           16:15         5      143         6      154       4      2      6           12        7    146        2        155        4      7      3           14      10     64       74        409
           16:30         4      130         3      137       5      8      3           16        9    141        4        154        4      7     11           22       6     47       53        382
           16:45         3      119         5      127       5      4     11           20        1    146        3        150        7      4      9           20      10     41       51        368
  Total Volume          16      546        18      580      22     19     25           66       21    579       14        614       18     21     31           70      35    211      246       1576
  % App. Total         2.8     94.1       3.1             33.3   28.8   37.9                   3.4   94.3      2.3                25.7     30   44.3                 14.2   85.8
            PHF      .800      .886     .750      .895    .688   .594   .568        .825     .583    .991    .700        .990     .643   .750   .705        .795     .875   .824      .831       .945
                                                                                          MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                       File Name     : telegraph-52-p
                                                                                                                                                                                      Site Code     : 14
fp                                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 5/13/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                   Page No       :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 TELEGRAPH AV                                   CLAREMONT AV                       TELEGRAPH AV                                         52nd ST
                                  Southbound                                      Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH     LT App. Total                  RT      TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT        App. Total     RT            TH       LT             App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        39       123      16      178                   20       28      24         72         32    203        2             237       4              2        6                   12          499
             16:15        50       164      21      235                   16       28      30         74         47    187        1             235       5              1        7                   13          557
             16:30        31       127      26      184                   40       25      26         91         42    178        5             225       3              1        2                    6          506
             16:45        35       156      17      208                   30       14      30         74         58    219        1             278       4              0        1                    5          565
              Total      155       570      80      805                  106       95     110        311       179     787        9             975      16              4       16                   36         2127

             17:00        36        117            13              166    43        20      26            89       64      201       2          267          3               0            5            8         530
             17:15        25        159            22              206    30        11      23            64       39      221       5          265          2               2            2            6         541
             17:30        44        162            18              224    37        15      26            78       34      215       2          251          3               2            3            8         561
             17:45        35        152            18              205    36        14      23            73       43      223       0          266          0               1            1            2         546
              Total      140        590            71              801   146        60      98           304      180      860       9         1049          8               5           11           24        2178

      Grand Total         295     1160            151             1606   252       155     208           615      359     1647      18         2024       24              9               27          60        4305
        Apprch %         18.4      72.2            9.4                     41     25.2    33.8                   17.7      81.4    0.9                    40             15               45
          Total %          6.9     26.9            3.5            37.3    5.9       3.6     4.8          14.3      8.3     38.3    0.4           47      0.6            0.2              0.6          1.4




                                   TELEGRAPH AV                                 CLAREMONT AV                         TELEGRAPH AV                                       52nd ST
                                    Southbound                                    Westbound                              Northbound                                    Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total           RT      TH       LT App. Total           RT     TH      LT      App. Total     RT            TH       LT             App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:45
             16:45          35       156           17      208             30       14      30            74       58      219        1         278        4            0                  1           5         565
             17:00          36       117           13      166             43       20      26            89       64      201        2         267        3            0                  5           8         530
             17:15          25       159           22      206             30       11      23            64       39      221        5         265        2            2                  2           6         541
             17:30          44       162           18      224             37       15      26            78       34      215        2         251        3            2                  3           8         561
     Total Volume          140       594           70      804            140       60     105           305      195      856       10        1061       12            4                 11          27        2197
     % App. Total         17.4      73.9          8.7                    45.9     19.7    34.4                   18.4     80.7      0.9                 44.4         14.8               40.7
              PHF         .795      .917        .795      .897           .814     .750    .875           .857    .762     .968    .500         .954     .750         .500               .550        .844         .972


                                                                                                TELEGRAPH AV
                                                                                             Out     In    Total
                                                                                             1007     804   1811


                                                                                                   140     594     70
                                                                                                  RT      TH     LT




                                                                                          Peak Hour Data
                                           237
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  269
                                                          11




                                                                                                                                                       RT
                                                         LT




                                                                                                                                                                   CLAREMONT AV
                                                                                                                                                       140




                                                                                                         North
                                           27
                                     52nd ST




                                                         4
                                         In




                                                             TH




                                                                                                                                                       TH




                                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 16:45
                                                                                                                                                                         305
                                                                                                                                                        60




                                                                                           Vehicles Only
                                                          12
                                           210



                                                         RT




                                                                                                                                                       LT
                                                                                                                                                       105
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                574




                                                                                                  LT      TH     RT
                                                                                                    10     856    195


                                                                                             711   1061            1772
                                                                                            Out     In            Total
                                                                                            TELEGRAPH AV
                                                                                    MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                              File Name     : telegraph-52-s
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code     : 14
fp                                                                                                                                                           Start Date    : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                          Page No       :1


                                                                                  Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 TELEGRAPH AV                             CLAREMONT AV                       TELEGRAPH AV                             52nd ST
                                  Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                          Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH     LT App. Total           RT       TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT     App. Total    RT    TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        43       157      20      220            30         9      17         56         28    190        2          220      0      0        7             7          503
             16:15        65       158      18      241            24         9      23         56         22    145        2          169      5      0        8            13          479
             16:30        45       163      16      224            33         6      11         50         20    173        6          199      6      1        4            11          484
             16:45        56       155      25      236            33         7      13         53         27    171        0          198      8      0        4            12          499
              Total      209       633      79      921           120        31      64        215         97    679      10           786     19      1       23            43         1965

             17:00        55        148        11          214     23          8      16        47       37      171        1          209      1       0        2            3         473
             17:15        49        145        13          207     31         11      15        57       27      170        2          199      0       0        0            0         463
             17:30        54        162        19          235     23          6      16        45       25      183        3          211      2       0        4            6         497
             17:45        49        140        12          201     30          7      14        51       18      173        2          193      8       1        5           14         459
              Total      207        595        55          857    107         32      61       200      107      697        8          812     11       1       11           23        1892

             18:00        75        123        21          219     29          9      16        54       26      149        5          180       1      0         2           3         456
             18:15        70        151        13          234     35         15      16        66       26      162        2          190       3      0         1           4         494
             18:30        70        128         8          206     25          6      29        60       31      134        2          167       1      1         2           4         437
             18:45        58        153        19          230     31          9      15        55       24      127        1          152       3      1         2           6         443
              Total      273        555        61          889    120         39      76       235      107      572       10          689       8      2         7          17        1830

      Grand Total         689     1783        195         2667     347       102     201       650      311    1948        28         2287      38      4        41          83        5687
        Apprch %         25.8      66.9        7.3                53.4      15.7    30.9               13.6     85.2      1.2                 45.8    4.8      49.4
          Total %        12.1      31.4        3.4        46.9      6.1       1.8     3.5      11.4      5.5    34.3      0.5         40.2     0.7    0.1       0.7          1.5




                                   TELEGRAPH AV                           CLAREMONT AV                     TELEGRAPH AV                               52nd ST
                                    Southbound                              Westbound                          Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT       TH       LT App. Total       RT     TH      LT       App. Total    RT    TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00          43       157           20      220      30         9      17        56       28      190         2         220       0       0        7           7         503
             16:15          65       158           18      241      24         9      23        56       22      145         2         169       5       0        8          13         479
             16:30          45       163           16      224      33         6      11        50       20      173         6         199       6       1        4          11         484
             16:45          56       155           25      236      33         7      13        53       27      171         0         198       8       0        4          12         499
     Total Volume          209       633           79      921     120        31      64       215       97      679        10         786      19       1       23          43        1965
     % App. Total         22.7      68.7          8.6             55.8      14.4    29.8               12.3     86.4       1.3                44.2     2.3     53.5
              PHF         .804      .971        .790      .955    .909      .861    .696       .960    .866     .893     .417         .893    .594   .250      .719        .827         .977
                                                                                        MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                         File Name     : telegraph-51-p
                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code     : 15
fp                                                                                                                                                                      Start Date    : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                     Page No       :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 TELEGRAPH AV                                     51st ST                          TELEGRAPH AV                                   51st ST
                                  Southbound                                    Westbound                              Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total                RT      TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT     App. Total      RT        TH        LT    App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        17       152      84       253                 41     106        20        167         30    106      26           162       20       116        87          223          805
             16:15        10       146      67       223                 40     101        20        161         29     95      23           147       22       132        94          248          779
             16:30         8       135      64       207                 46     103        21        170         24    131      32           187       15       122        98          235          799
             16:45         8       133      72       213                 40      87        21        148         21    141      16           178       22       144       101          267          806
              Total       43       566     287       896                167     397        82        646       104     473      97           674       79       514       380          973         3189

             17:00         18       149            77             244    38      92       21           151      25      129      24          178        18      131       114          263         836
             17:15         11       147            63             221    55      83       16           154      31      123      20          174        20      140       108          268         817
             17:30         18       159            72             249    53      91       26           170      25      117      28          170        16      126       123          265         854
             17:45          8       115            72             195    55      89       22           166      26      164      23          213        18      140       101          259         833
              Total        55       570           284             909   201     355       85           641     107      533      95          735        72      537       446         1055        3340

      Grand Total          98     1136             571           1805    368     752    167           1287     211     1006     192         1409      151      1051        826        2028        6529
        Apprch %          5.4      62.9           31.6                  28.6    58.4      13                     15     71.4   13.6                    7.4      51.8      40.7
          Total %         1.5      17.4             8.7          27.6     5.6   11.5     2.6          19.7      3.2     15.4     2.9        21.6       2.3      16.1      12.7        31.1




                                   TELEGRAPH AV                                  51st ST                          TELEGRAPH AV                                   51st ST
                                    Southbound                                  Westbound                             Northbound                                Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total          RT     TH       LT     App. Total      RT     TH      LT      App. Total      RT       TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00           18      149          77       244            38      92      21           151      25      129      24          178         18      131       114         263         836
             17:15           11      147          63       221            55      83      16           154      31      123      20          174         20      140       108         268         817
             17:30           18      159          72       249            53      91      26           170      25      117      28          170         16      126       123         265         854
             17:45            8      115          72       195            55      89      22           166      26      164      23          213         18      140       101         259         833
     Total Volume            55      570         284       909           201     355      85           641     107      533      95          735         72      537       446        1055        3340
     % App. Total           6.1     62.7        31.2                    31.4    55.4    13.3                  14.6     72.5    12.9                     6.8     50.9      42.3
              PHF         .764      .896        .922      .913          .914    .965    .817          .943    .863     .813    .848         .863      .900      .959      .907        .984         .978


                                                                                             TELEGRAPH AV
                                                                                          Out     In    Total
                                                                                          1180     909   2089


                                                                                                55      570    284
                                                                                               RT      TH     LT




                                                                                       Peak Hour Data
                                          1560
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                               928
                                                          446




                                                                                                                                                    RT
                                                          LT




                                                                                                                                                    201




                                                                                                      North
                                        1055




                                                                                                                                                              51st ST
                                     51st ST




                                                           537
                                         In




                                                          TH




                                                                                                                                                    TH




                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                     355




                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                 641




                                                                                         Vehicles Only
                                                           72
                                           505



                                                          RT




                                                                                                                                                    LT
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                     85


                                                                                                                                                              1569




                                                                                               LT      TH     RT
                                                                                                 95     533    107


                                                                                           727    735           1462
                                                                                          Out    In            Total
                                                                                          TELEGRAPH AV
                                                                                   MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                              File Name     : telegraph-51-s
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code     : 15
fp                                                                                                                                                           Start Date    : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                          Page No       :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 TELEGRAPH AV                                51st ST                          TELEGRAPH AV                              51st ST
                                  Southbound                               Westbound                              Northbound                          Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total          RT       TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT   App. Total    RT       TH        LT   App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        26       120      73       219           37      102        15        154         26     98      14         138     15       96        59         170          681
             16:15        12       111      50       173           29       91        24        144         24     81      21         126     27      104        63         194          637
             16:30        12       104      62       178           38       90        19        147         33     99      27         159     23       87        71         181          665
             16:45        12       118      52       182           34       88        20        142         13    102      25         140     21      109        62         192          656
              Total       62       453     237       752          138      371        78        587         96    380      87         563     86      396       255         737         2639

             17:00         19       115        39          173     37       78       22          137      16      86      19          121     28       76       76          180         611
             17:15          7       106        56          169     37       81       19          137      22     113      16          151     27       93       61          181         638
             17:30         12       105        53          170     40       79       18          137      34      84      15          133     26       77       72          175         615
             17:45          8       107        40          155     34       82       13          129      21      94      19          134     22       91       60          173         591
              Total        46       433       188          667    148      320       72          540      93     377      69          539    103      337      269          709        2455

             18:00         10       103        27          140     31       76       16          123      14      96      20          130      25      92       55          172         565
             18:15          7       121        32          160     28       97       16          141      20      97      18          135      24      90       64          178         614
             18:30         12       111        38          161     38       69       21          128      22      79      21          122      16      98       59          173         584
             18:45         18       116        43          177     32       76       15          123      19      79       7          105      29      81       35          145         550
              Total        47       451       140          638    129      318       68          515      75     351      66          492      94     361      213          668        2313

      Grand Total        155      1337        565         2057     415    1009      218         1642     264    1108     222         1594     283    1094       737        2114        7407
        Apprch %          7.5        65      27.5                 25.3     61.4    13.3                 16.6     69.5   13.9                 13.4     51.8     34.9
          Total %         2.1      18.1        7.6        27.8      5.6    13.6      2.9        22.2      3.6      15      3         21.5      3.8    14.8       10        28.5




                                   TELEGRAPH AV                             51st ST                        TELEGRAPH AV                                51st ST
                                    Southbound                             Westbound                           Northbound                             Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT      TH       LT     App. Total    RT     TH      LT      App. Total    RT      TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00           26      120          73       219      37     102       15          154      26      98      14          138      15      96        59         170         681
             16:15           12      111          50       173      29      91       24          144      24      81      21          126      27     104        63         194         637
             16:30           12      104          62       178      38      90       19          147      33      99      27          159      23      87        71         181         665
             16:45           12      118          52       182      34      88       20          142      13     102      25          140      21     109        62         192         656
     Total Volume            62      453         237       752     138     371       78          587      96     380      87          563      86     396       255         737        2639
     % App. Total           8.2     60.2        31.5              23.5    63.2     13.3                 17.1    67.5    15.5                 11.7    53.7      34.6
              PHF         .596      .944        .812      .858    .908    .909     .813         .953    .727    .931    .806         .885    .796    .908      .898        .950         .969
                                                                                       MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                        File Name       : shafter-51-p
                                                                                                                                                                       Site Code       : 16
fp                                                                                                                                                                     Start Date      : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                    Page No         :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                  SHAFTER AVE                                    51st ST                           SHAFTER AVE                                   51st ST
                                   Southbound                                  Westbound                              Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total              RT       TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT     App. Total      RT        TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         4        11        9       24               13      160         1        174          1      11       5           17        6       155        7          168          383
             16:15         4          5       8       17                6      133         6        145          5       9     11            25        5       165        5          175          362
             16:30         3          8      12       23                6      137         3        146          5      14     10            29       12       151        7          170          368
             16:45         0          5       8       13                5      128         4        137          4      12       5           21       13       187        7          207          378
              Total       11        29       37       77               30      558        14        602         15      46     31            92       36       658       26          720         1491

             17:00          4         6            16            26      5     147        9            161      10       13     25           48         6      194       11          211         446
             17:15          8        12            13            33      7     149        4            160       6       12      8           26         9      198       14          221         440
             17:30          8        10             1            19      5     136        6            147       5       18      9           32         5      240       10          255         453
             17:45          7        10            15            32      8     118        4            130       9       16      7           32         8      194       12          214         408
              Total        27        38            45           110     25     550       23            598      30       59     49          138        28      826       47          901        1747

      Grand Total          38        67             82          187     55    1108       37           1200      45      105      80         230        64     1484       73         1621        3238
        Apprch %         20.3      35.8           43.9                 4.6     92.3     3.1                   19.6     45.7    34.8                   3.9      91.5     4.5
          Total %         1.2       2.1            2.5          5.8    1.7     34.2     1.1           37.1     1.4       3.2    2.5          7.1        2      45.8     2.3         50.1




                                   SHAFTER AVE                                  51st ST                            SHAFTER AVE                                  51st ST
                                    Southbound                                 Westbound                              Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total        RT      TH       LT      App. Total      RT     TH      LT     App. Total      RT       TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            4         6         16        26            5    147         9           161      10       13      25          48          6      194       11         211         446
             17:15            8        12         13        33            7    149         4           160       6       12       8          26          9      198       14         221         440
             17:30            8        10          1        19            5    136         6           147       5       18       9          32          5      240       10         255         453
             17:45            7        10         15        32            8    118         4           130       9       16       7          32          8      194       12         214         408
     Total Volume           27         38         45       110           25    550        23           598      30       59      49         138         28      826       47         901        1747
     % App. Total         24.5      34.5        40.9                    4.2     92       3.8                  21.7     42.8    35.5                    3.1     91.7      5.2
              PHF         .844      .792        .703      .833        .781    .923     .639           .929    .750     .819    .490        .719      .778      .860    .839         .883         .964


                                                                                             SHAFTER AVE
                                                                                         Out     In     Total
                                                                                          131     110    241


                                                                                                27      38      45
                                                                                               RT      TH     LT




                                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                                          1527
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                              901
                                                          47




                                                                                                                                                   RT
                                                         LT




                                                                                                      North
                                                                                                                                                    25
                                          901




                                                                                                                                                             51st ST
                                     51st ST




                                                          826
                                         In




                                                         TH




                                                                                                                                                   TH




                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                    550




                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                598




                                                                                        Vehicles Only
                                                          28
                                           626



                                                         RT




                                                                                                                                                   LT
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                    23


                                                                                                                                                             1499




                                                                                               LT      TH     RT
                                                                                                 49     59     30


                                                                                           89    138            227
                                                                                         Out    In             Total
                                                                                         SHAFTER AVE
                                                                                   MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                File Name       : shafter-51-s
                                                                                                                                                               Site Code       : 16
fp                                                                                                                                                             Start Date      : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                            Page No         :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                  SHAFTER AVE                                51st ST                           SHAFTER AVE                               51st ST
                                   Southbound                              Westbound                              Northbound                           Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total          RT       TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT    App. Total    RT       TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         4          5       9       18            7      155         3        165          6      11       4          21      8      139        8          155          359
             16:15         5        12        7       24            6      143         4        153          4       6     11           21      8      157       14          179          377
             16:30         3          9       8       20            7      162         3        172          4       3       4          11     10      154        6          170          373
             16:45         7          6       6       19            1      139         2        142          3       7       9          19      7      158        3          168          348
              Total       19        32       30       81           21      599        12        632         17      27     28           72     33      608       31          672         1457

             17:00          4        10         5           19       6     132        4          142      4        7        6           17       3     141        5          149         327
             17:15          1         6         5           12       2     130        3          135      6        7        6           19       6     144        8          158         324
             17:30          7         8         4           19       5     153        2          160      3       11        3           17       7     124        9          140         336
             17:45          6        11         3           20       6     125        3          134      2        9        3           14       6     128        2          136         304
              Total        18        35        17           70      19     540       12          571     15       34       18           67      22     537       24          583        1291

             18:00          6        10        10           26       5     108        4          117      2        7        8           17       9     129        6          144         304
             18:15          2         5         3           10       6     118        2          126      1       12        9           22       4     124        7          135         293
             18:30          5         7         8           20       6     109        0          115      6        5        3           14       5     127        5          137         286
             18:45          3         3         1            7       1     119        0          120      0        6        7           13       3     116        4          123         263
              Total        16        25        22           63      18     454        6          478      9       30       27           66      21     496       22          539        1146

      Grand Total          53        92        69          214      58    1593       30         1681      41      91       73          205      76    1641       77         1794        3894
        Apprch %         24.8        43      32.2                  3.5     94.8     1.8                   20    44.4     35.6                  4.2     91.5     4.3
          Total %         1.4       2.4       1.8          5.5     1.5     40.9     0.8         43.2     1.1     2.3      1.9           5.3      2     42.1       2         46.1




                                   SHAFTER AVE                              51st ST                         SHAFTER AVE                                 51st ST
                                    Southbound                             Westbound                           Northbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT      TH       LT     App. Total    RT     TH      LT       App. Total    RT      TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00            4         5          9        18        7    155         3         165       6      11        4           21        8    139         8         155         359
             16:15            5        12          7        24        6    143         4         153       4       6       11           21        8    157        14         179         377
             16:30            3         9          8        20        7    162         3         172       4       3        4           11       10    154         6         170         373
             16:45            7         6          6        19        1    139         2         142       3       7        9           19        7    158         3         168         348
     Total Volume           19         32         30        81       21    599        12         632      17      27       28           72       33    608        31         672        1457
     % App. Total         23.5      39.5          37                3.3   94.8       1.9                23.6    37.5     38.9                   4.9   90.5       4.6
              PHF         .679      .667        .833      .844    .750    .924     .750         .919    .708    .614     .636         .857    .825    .962     .554         .939         .966
                                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                     File Name        : gilbert-pleasant-p
                                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 17
fp                                                                                                                                                                                  Start Date       : 5/11/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 SAFEWAY D/W                                         PLEASANT VALLEY AV                           GILBERT ST                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                  Southbound                                             Westbound                                Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time         RT       TH       LT App. Total                          RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT          TH      LT    App. Total      RT     TH       LT App. Total                 Int. Total
             16:00        57       12       49       118                           23    126       2        151          3          7        6          16       11    168        51      230                        515
             16:15        60       10       48       118                           25    128       4        157          2          8      11           21       10    175        58      243                        539
             16:30        55       18       58       131                           29    148       4        181          5         10      15           30       13    167        48      228                        570
             16:45        46         8      54       108                           25    148       1        174          2          9      12           23       14    221        59      294                        599
              Total      218       48      209       475                          102    550      11        663         12         34      44           90       48    731      216       995                       2223

             17:00        51          9                      69            129     20      160       2            182         2     6       9           17       16        270                74        360         688
             17:15        41          9                      56            106     31      169       2            202         1    10      12           23       13        273                65        351         682
             17:30        55          8                      66            129     36      154       2            192         0     8       3           11        8        283                58        349         681
             17:45        70          8                      49            127     27      136      12            175         6     5      13           24       17        236                44        297         623
              Total      217         34                     240            491    114      619      18            751         9    29      37           75       54       1062               241       1357        2674

      Grand Total        435         82                      449           966     216    1169      29           1414      21       63      81         165      102       1793                457      2352        4897
        Apprch %           45       8.5                     46.5                  15.3     82.7    2.1                   12.7     38.2    49.1                   4.3       76.2              19.4
          Total %         8.9       1.7                       9.2          19.7     4.4    23.9    0.6           28.9     0.4      1.3     1.7          3.4      2.1       36.6                9.3       48




                                   SAFEWAY D/W                                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV                           GILBERT ST                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                    Southbound                                           Westbound                                Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total                    RT     TH      LT App. Total            RT      TH      LT    App. Total      RT     TH       LT App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00          51          9         69       129                      20     160        2           182       2        6       9          17        16        270                74       360         688
             17:15          41          9         56       106                      31     169        2           202       1       10      12          23        13        273                65       351         682
             17:30          55          8         66       129                      36     154        2           192       0        8       3          11         8        283                58       349         681
             17:45          70          8         49       127                      27     136       12           175       6        5      13          24        17        236                44       297         623
     Total Volume          217         34        240       491                     114     619       18           751       9       29      37          75        54      1062                241      1357        2674
     % App. Total         44.2        6.9       48.9                              15.2    82.4      2.4                    12     38.7    49.3                     4       78.3              17.8
              PHF         .775      .944        .870      .952                    .792    .916    .375           .929    .375     .725    .712        .781      .794       .938              .814       .942        .972


                                                                                                        SAFEWAY D/W
                                                                                                    Out     In     Total
                                                                                                     384     491    875


                                                                                                           217     34     240
                                                                                                          RT      TH     LT




                                                                                                  Peak Hour Data
                                                     2230
                                                    Total
                                     PLEASANT VALLEY AV




                                                                                                                                                                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                                                                                                                                                       1311
                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                    241




                                                                                                                                                              RT
                                                                    LT




                                                                                                                                                              114




                                                                                                                 North
                                             1357


                                                                    1062
                                              In




                                                                    TH




                                                                                                                                                              TH




                                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                               619




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                                751




                                                                                                   Vehicles Only
                                                                     54
                                       873



                                                                    RT




                                                                                                                                                              LT
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                               18


                                                                                                                                                                                      2062




                                                                                                          LT      TH     RT
                                                                                                            37     29         9


                                                                                                     106          75    181
                                                                                                    Out         In     Total
                                                                                                            GILBERT ST
                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                         File Name    : gilbert-pleasant-s
                                                                                                                                                        Site Code    : 17
fp                                                                                                                                                      Start Date   : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 SAFEWAY D/W                         PLEASANT VALLEY AV                        GILBERT ST                      PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                  Southbound                             Westbound                             Northbound                           Eastbound
       Start Time         RT       TH       LT App. Total          RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT     App. Total    RT     TH       LT App. Total     Int. Total
             16:00        66       16       68       150           17    139       1        157          1       9      11            21      4    172        67      243            571
             16:15        59       10       55       124           17    145       3        165          0       7      12            19     11    154        55      220            528
             16:30        56       16       60       132           33    142       7        182          3       8        9           20     13    130        66      209            543
             16:45        45       10       73       128           31    127       5        163          0      12        9           21     13    160        60      233            545
              Total      226       52      256       534           98    553      16        667          4      36      41            81     41    616      248       905           2187

             17:00        57         10        53          120      25     124       5        154        0       9        5           14      13     140      57        210         498
             17:15        56          6        55          117      30     123       3        156        3       5       11           19      17     147      56        220         512
             17:30        41          7        50           98      26     111       3        140        2       7       11           20      14     158      48        220         478
             17:45        57          7        47          111      15     109       3        127        2       4       14           20      13     161      64        238         496
              Total      211         30       205          446      96     467      14        577        7      25       41           73      57     606     225        888        1984

             18:00        58         10        54          122      22     118       6        146        3       7        5           15      12     131      48        191         474
             18:15        53          5        39           97      18     109       2        129        1       6        7           14      10     133      50        193         433
             18:30        53         11        43          107      17      97       2        116        1       3        8           12      10     119      31        160         395
             18:45        51          7        29           87      17     105       2        124        2       6        7           15      10     138      42        190         416
              Total      215         33       165          413      74     429      12        515        7      22       27           56      42     521     171        734        1718

      Grand Total         652       115       626         1393     268    1449      42      1759        18       83     109          210    140     1743     644       2527        5889
        Apprch %         46.8        8.3     44.9                 15.2     82.4    2.4                 8.6     39.5    51.9                  5.5       69   25.5
          Total %        11.1          2     10.6         23.7      4.6    24.6    0.7       29.9      0.3      1.4      1.9          3.6    2.4     29.6   10.9        42.9




                                   SAFEWAY D/W                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV                        GILBERT ST                      PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                             Northbound                           Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT     App. Total    RT     TH       LT App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00          66         16         68       150      17     139        1       157         1       9      11           21        4    172      67        243         571
             16:15          59         10         55       124      17     145        3       165         0       7      12           19       11    154      55        220         528
             16:30          56         16         60       132      33     142        7       182         3       8       9           20       13    130      66        209         543
             16:45          45         10         73       128      31     127        5       163         0      12       9           21       13    160      60        233         545
     Total Volume          226         52        256       534      98     553       16       667         4      36      41           81       41    616     248        905        2187
     % App. Total         42.3        9.7       47.9              14.7    82.9      2.4                 4.9    44.4    50.6                   4.5   68.1    27.4
              PHF         .856      .813        .877      .890    .742    .953    .571       .916     .333     .750    .854         .964    .788    .895    .925        .931        .958
                                                                                                                            MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                                                            File Name                    : montgomery-pleasant-p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Site Code                    : 18
fp                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date                   : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page No                      :1


                                                                                                                           Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                         MONTGOMERY ST                                    PLEASANT VALLEY AVE                                 MONTGOMERY ST                                     PLEASANT VALLEY AVE                                            MATHER ST
                           Southbound                                          Westbound                                             Northbound                                       Eastbound                                              Southeastbound
                    to                                                                to                                                          to                                                    to
 Start Time               RT    TH      LT              App. Total       RT                       TH    LT    App. Total     RT       TH                   LT    App. Total     RT     TH     LT              App. Total     RT                RT        TH     LT    App. Total   Int. Total
                Mather                                                            Mather                                                     Mather                                                 Mather
       16:00        0      2     0          0                   2          2         3        196        3       204           1        0         1         2             4      6    195      4        0         205             0              6         0      0         6       421
       16:15        0      3     0          1                   4          2         4        207        5       218           3        1         1         2             7      6    222      3        0         231             0              2         0      0         2       462
       16:30        0      4     0          2                   6          0         0        168        2       170           3        0         0         1             4      8    239      5        0         252             0              3         0      0         3       435
       16:45        0      3     1          1                   5          1         5        169        4       179           1        0         0         0             1      6    246      2        0         254             1              6         0      0         7       446
        Total       0     12     1          4                  17          5        12        740       14       771           8        1         2         5            16     26    902     14        0         942             1             17         0      0        18      1764

       17:00        0       2    0          0                   2          3         1        209         4      217           3        0         3         1             7      9    267      0        1       277               0              2         0      0         2       505
       17:15        0       0    1          0                   1          4         6        200         2      212           1        1         3         0             5      6    285      6        0       297               0              8         0      0         8       523
       17:30        0       5    0          0                   5          1         3        187         3      194           5        1         1         2             9     11    236      4        2       253               1              7         0      0         8       469
       17:45        0       2    0          5                   7          1         2        176         0      179           2        0         1         2             5     58    206      4        3       271               1              5         0      0         6       468
        Total       0       9    1          5                  15          9        12        772         9      802          11        2         8         5            26     84    994     14        6      1098               2             22         0      0        24      1965

  Grand Total       0     21      2         9                  32         14        24        1512       23    1573           19        3       10         10            42    110    1896     28      6       2040            3                39         0      0        42      3729
  Apprch %          0    65.6   6.2   28.1                               0.9       1.5        96.1      1.5                 45.2      7.1    23.8      23.8                     5.4   92.9    1.4    0.3                     7.1            92.9           0      0
   Total %          0     0.6   0.1    0.2                     0.9       0.4       0.6        40.5      0.6     42.2         0.5      0.1       0.3     0.3              1.1    2.9   50.8    0.8    0.2          54.7       0.1                    1      0      0       1.1




                         MONTGOMERY ST                                    PLEASANT VALLEY AVE                                  MONTGOMERY ST                                    PLEASANT VALLEY AVE                                            MATHER ST
                           Southbound                                          Westbound                                           Northbound                                         Eastbound                                              Southeastbound
                    to                                                                to                                                          to                                                    to
 Start Time               RT    TH      LT              App. Total       RT                       TH    LT    App. Total     RT       TH                   LT    App. Total     RT     TH     LT              App. Total     RT                RT        TH     LT    App. Total   Int. Total
                Mather                                                            Mather                                                     Mather                                                 Mather
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
        17:00      0       2      0      0         2    3                            1        209         4      217           3        0        3          1             7       9   267       0      1        277            0                 2         0      0         2       505
        17:15      0       0      1      0         1    4                            6        200         2      212           1        1        3          0             5       6   285       6      0        297            0                 8         0      0         8       523
        17:30      0       5      0      0         5    1                            3        187         3      194           5        1        1          2             9      11   236       4      2        253            1                 7         0      0         8       469
        17:45      0       2      0      5         7    1                            2        176         0      179           2        0        1          2             5      58   206       4      3        271            1                 5         0      0         6       468
 Total Volume      0       9      1      5        15    9                           12        772         9      802          11        2        8          5            26      84   994      14      6       1098            2                22         0      0        24      1965
  % App. Total     0     60     6.7 33.3              1.1                          1.5        96.3      1.1                 42.3      7.7    30.8      19.2                     7.7   90.5    1.3    0.5                     8.3            91.7           0      0
         PHF .000 .450 .250 .250                .536 .563                         .500        .923     .563     .924        .550     .500    .667      .625          .722      .362   .872   .583   .500          .924      .500            .688        .000   .000     .750        .939


                                      MATHER ST                                                                                 MONTGOMERY ST
                                                                      50 al




                                                                                                                               Out   In    Total
                                                                          t
                                                                       To




                                                                                                                                 25    15     40
                                                                                           LT 0
                                                               In
                                                                 24




                                                                                                                                0           9          1             5
                                                                               TH 0




                                                                                                                             to        RT         TH            LT
                                       26 t
                                           u




                                                                                                                            Mather
                                         O




                                                                     R 22
                                                                      T
                                                               R 2
                                                                T




                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                                                         Mather
                                                        1886


                                                                     6
                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLEASANT VALLEY AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                             RT
                                                                           to




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                      PLEASANT VALLEY AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                        9




                                                                                                                                            North
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mather
                                                                      14
                                                                     LT




                                                                                                                                                                                                            to
                                                1098




                                                                                                                                                                                                              12
                                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      802
                                                                      994
                                                                     TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                             TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                              772




                                                                                                                             Vehicles Only
                                          788
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                      84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1812
                                                                     RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                             LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9




                                                                                                                                      to
                                                                                                                              LT     Mather       TH            RT
                                                                                                                                   5     8             2         11


                                                                                                                               116    26    142
                                                                                                                              Out   In     Total
                                                                                                                             MONTGOMERY ST
                                                                                                      MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                             File Name      : montgomery-pleasant-s
                                                                                                                                                                                            Site Code      : 18
fp                                                                                                                                                                                          Start Date     : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                         Page No        :1


                                                                                                     Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                         MONTGOMERY ST                      PLEASANT VALLEY AVE                         MONTGOMERY ST                             PLEASANT VALLEY AVE                                 MATHER ST
                           Southbound                            Westbound                                     Northbound                               Eastbound                                   Southeastbound
                    to                                               to                                                 to                                                to
 Start Time               RT     TH     LT    App. Total   RT              TH     LT    App. Total     RT     TH              LT    App. Total    RT     TH     LT             App. Total     RT     RT     TH     LT    App. Total   Int. Total
                Mather                                           Mather                                             Mather                                            Mather
       16:00        0       2      0      0           2     0       1     178      1       180           6      0       0      3          9        8    225      5        2       240           0     4       0      0         4       435
       16:15        0       0      0      0           0     0       3     177      4       184           3      0       1      1          5       10    198      3        1       212           0     2       0      0         2       403
       16:30        0       0      0      3           3     2       2     183      5       192           4      0       0      3          7        7    186      0        0       193           1     6       0      0         7       402
       16:45        0       2      0      0           2     1       5     160      7       173           4      0       2      4         10        5    224      6        3       238           2     5       0      0         7       430
        Total       0       4      0      3           7     3      11     698     17       729          17      0       3     11         31       30    833     14        6       883           3    17       0      0        20      1670

       17:00        0      2       1      0         3       1        0    159      5       165           2      0       3       2         7        1    189      5        0       195           2     8       0      0        10       380
       17:15        0      1       0      1         2       3        1    150      2       156           3      1       0       2         6        4    196      4        1       205           2     3       0      0         5       374
       17:30        0      7       0      1         8       1        4    127      4       136           4      0       1       1         6        4    198      4        2       208           0     5       0      1         6       364
       17:45        0      2       2      0         4       0        4    132      2       138           0      1       2       1         4        4    193      3        0       200           1     5       0      0         6       352
        Total       0     12       3      2        17       5        9    568     13       595           9      2       6       6        23       13    776     16        3       808           5    21       0      1        27      1470

       18:00        0       3      0      0         3       0       2     133      4       139           4      0       1       3         8        3    183       3       2       191           3     7       0      0        10       351
       18:15        0       0      1      1         2       0       6     137      2       145           2      0       3       0         5        5    167       4       4       180           2     4       0      2         8       340
       18:30        0       0      0      0         0       2       3     115      3       123           3      0       1       1         5        3    161       2       1       167           2     3       0      1         6       301
       18:45        0       4      0      1         5       2       1     110      4       117           3      0       1       3         7        3    170       0       1       174           1     6       0      0         7       310
        Total       0       7      1      2        10       4      12     495     13       524          12      0       6       7        25       14    681       9       8       712           8    20       0      3        31      1302

  Grand Total       0     23       4      7        34       12     32     1761     43    1848           38      2     15      24         79        57   2290     39     17      2403          16     58       0      4        78      4442
  Apprch %          0    67.6   11.8   20.6                0.6    1.7     95.3    2.3                 48.1    2.5     19     30.4                 2.4   95.3    1.6    0.7                   20.5   74.4      0    5.1
   Total %          0     0.5    0.1    0.2       0.8      0.3    0.7     39.6      1     41.6         0.9      0    0.3      0.5       1.8       1.3   51.6    0.9    0.4       54.1         0.4    1.3      0    0.1       1.8




                         MONTGOMERY ST                      PLEASANT VALLEY AVE                          MONTGOMERY ST                            PLEASANT VALLEY AVE                                 MATHER ST
                           Southbound                            Westbound                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound                                   Southeastbound
                    to                                               to                                                 to                                                to
 Start Time               RT     TH     LT    App. Total   RT              TH     LT    App. Total     RT     TH              LT    App. Total    RT     TH     LT             App. Total     RT     RT     TH     LT    App. Total   Int. Total
                Mather                                           Mather                                             Mather                                            Mather
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
        16:00      0       2      0      0         2    0           1     178       1      180           6      0      0       3          9         8   225       5      2        240          0      4       0      0         4       435
        16:15      0       0      0      0         0    0           3     177       4      184           3      0      1       1          5        10   198       3      1        212          0      2       0      0         2       403
        16:30      0       0      0      3         3    2           2     183       5      192           4      0      0       3          7         7   186       0      0        193          1      6       0      0         7       402
        16:45      0       2      0      0         2    1           5     160       7      173           4      0      2       4         10         5   224       6      3        238          2      5       0      0         7       430
 Total Volume      0       4      0      3         7    3          11     698      17      729          17      0      3      11         31        30   833      14      6        883          3     17       0      0        20      1670
  % App. Total     0 57.1         0 42.9              0.4         1.5     95.7    2.3                 54.8      0    9.7     35.5                 3.4   94.3    1.6    0.7                    15     85       0      0
         PHF .000 .500 .000 .250                .583 .375        .550     .954   .607     .949        .708   .000   .375     .688     .775       .750   .926   .583   .500       .920        .375   .708   .000   .000     .714        .960
                                                                                                 MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                              File Name     : howe-pleasant-p
                                                                                                                                                                                             Site Code     : 19
fp                                                                                                                                                                                           Start Date    : 5/11/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                          Page No       :1


                                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                    HOWE ST                                         PLEASANT VALLEY AV                               HOWE ST                            PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                   Southbound                                           Westbound                                   Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT                     App. Total     RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT             TH      LT    App. Total         RT     TH       LT App. Total                 Int. Total
             16:00         3          3       5                            11      2    166       9        177         18             0      10           28          15    194        3       212                        428
             16:15         2          0       6                             8      1    152       6        159         13             0        5          18          12    229        1       242                        427
             16:30         4          0       2                             6      2    165       7        174         12             0      17           29          10    206        1       217                        426
             16:45         5          1       2                             8      2    148       4        154         19             0      14           33          10    239        2       251                        446
              Total       14          4      15                            33      7    631      26        664         62             0      46          108          47    868        7       922                       1727

             17:00          1           0                    4              5       2     168       4              174         20      0      9           29           15        328                  0      343         551
             17:15          1           1                    2              4       2     182       5              189         20      1     14           35           18        306                  2      326         554
             17:30          2           1                    0              3       0     186       2              188         31      0      3           34           17        301                  3      321         546
             17:45          1           0                    5              6       5     160       3              168         23      0      7           30           23        267                  1      291         495
              Total         5           2                   11             18       9     696      14              719         94      1     33          128           73       1202                  6     1281        2146

      Grand Total          19         6                      26            51      16    1327      40             1383        156      1      79         236         120        2070                 13     2203        3873
        Apprch %         37.3      11.8                      51                   1.2       96    2.9                        66.1    0.4    33.5                      5.4          94               0.6
          Total %         0.5       0.2                     0.7            1.3    0.4     34.3      1             35.7          4      0       2          6.1         3.1        53.4               0.3      56.9




                                      HOWE ST                                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV                               HOWE ST                            PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                    Southbound                                          Westbound                                   Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total                   RT     TH      LT App. Total                 RT    TH      LT    App. Total         RT     TH       LT App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            1         0          4          5                      2    168        4             174         20       0      9          29            15        328                  0     343         551
             17:15            1         1          2          4                      2    182        5             189         20       1     14          35            18        306                  2     326         554
             17:30            2         1          0          3                      0    186        2             188         31       0      3          34            17        301                  3     321         546
             17:45            1         0          5          6                      5    160        3             168         23       0      7          30            23        267                  1     291         495
     Total Volume             5         2         11        18                       9    696       14             719         94       1     33         128            73      1202                   6    1281        2146
     % App. Total         27.8      11.1        61.1                               1.3   96.8      1.9                       73.4     0.8   25.8                       5.7       93.8                0.5
              PHF         .625      .500        .550      .750                   .450    .935    .700             .951       .758   .250    .589        .914         .793        .916              .500      .934        .968


                                                                                                              HOWE ST
                                                                                                    Out         In    Total
                                                                                                      16          18     34


                                                                                                              5          2     11
                                                                                                         RT        TH        LT




                                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                                     2015
                                                    Total
                                     PLEASANT VALLEY AV




                                                                                                                                                                             PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                                                                                                                                                             1307
                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                  6




                                                                                                                                                                RT
                                                                      LT




                                                                                                                  North
                                                                                                                                                                     9
                                             1281


                                                                  1202
                                              In




                                                                  TH




                                                                                                                                                                TH




                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                 696




                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                                      719




                                                                                                  Vehicles Only
                                                                   73
                                       734



                                                                  RT




                                                                                                                                                                LT
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                 14


                                                                                                                                                                                            2026




                                                                                                         LT        TH        RT
                                                                                                           33            1    94


                                                                                                      89         128   217
                                                                                                    Out         In    Total
                                                                                                              HOWE ST
                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                            File Name    : howe-pleasant-s
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 19
fp                                                                                                                                                         Start Date   : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                        Page No      :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                    HOWE ST                          PLEASANT VALLEY AV                         HOWE ST                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                   Southbound                            Westbound                             Northbound                          Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT       App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT     TH       LT App. Total        Int. Total
             16:00         7          0       1              8      3    159       5        167         10       2      19           31     21    209        2       232               438
             16:15         3          0       3              6      2    177       2        181         13       1      10           24     15    172        1       188               399
             16:30         6          0       2              8      1    178       4        183         15       3        6          24     17    183        0       200               415
             16:45         4          1       3              8      1    160      10        171         10       1        7          18      9    208        0       217               414
              Total       20          1       9             30      7    674      21        702         48       7      42           97     62    772        3       837              1666

             17:00          3         0         3            6      4     147        6        157       13        0      6           19      14     177           1       192         374
             17:15          3         0         0            3      4     145        5        154       11        0      4           15       8     190           0       198         370
             17:30          0         0         0            0      0     129        3        132       11        0      6           17      15     187           0       202         351
             17:45          0         0         3            3      9     123        8        140       15        0      3           18      13     178           0       191         352
              Total         6         0         6           12     17     544       22        583       50        0     19           69      50     732           1       783        1447

             18:00          3         0         2            5      1     131        3        135        7        1      8           16      21     163           1       185         341
             18:15          3         0         0            3      0     130        3        133        4        0     12           16       5     163           0       168         320
             18:30          0         0         1            1      2     116        6        124        9        0      6           15       8     157           1       166         306
             18:45          1         1         1            3      0     112        1        113        9        0      6           15      12     151           1       164         295
              Total         7         1         4           12      3     489       13        505       29        1     32           62      46     634           3       683        1262

      Grand Total          33         2        19           54      27   1707       56      1790       127        8      93         228    158     2138           7      2303        4375
        Apprch %         61.1       3.7      35.2                  1.5    95.4     3.1                55.7      3.5    40.8                 6.9     92.8        0.3
          Total %         0.8         0       0.4           1.2    0.6      39     1.3       40.9       2.9     0.2     2.1          5.2    3.6     48.9        0.2       52.6




                                      HOWE ST                        PLEASANT VALLEY AV                         HOWE ST                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                             Northbound                          Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT     TH       LT App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00            7         0          1          8      3     159       5        167       10         2     19          31       21    209            2      232         438
             16:15            3         0          3          6      2     177       2        181       13         1     10          24       15    172            1      188         399
             16:30            6         0          2          8      1     178       4        183       15         3      6          24       17    183            0      200         415
             16:45            4         1          3          8      1     160      10        171       10         1      7          18        9    208            0      217         414
     Total Volume           20          1          9        30       7     674      21        702       48         7     42          97       62    772            3      837        1666
     % App. Total         66.7        3.3         30                 1      96       3                49.5       7.2   43.3                  7.4   92.2          0.4
              PHF         .714      .250        .750      .938    .583    .947    .525       .959     .800     .583    .553        .782    .738    .923        .375       .902        .951
                                                                                                MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                      File Name                  : piedmont-pleasant-p
                                                                                                                                                                     Site Code                  : 20
fp                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                 : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                  Page No                    :1


                                                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                  PIEDMONT AV                                      PLEASANT VALLEY AV                      PIEDMONT AV                        PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                   Southbound                                          Westbound                            Northbound                             Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total                        RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT App. Total          RT     TH       LT App. Total                    Int. Total
             16:00         6          9       9       24                          8    144      29        181         53      10     44       107           36    161        10      207                           519
             16:15         7          8       6       21                         18    155      30        203         44       6     42        92           46    175         8      229                           545
             16:30        16         10      17       43                         10    111      26        147         51      10     46       107           42    181         8      231                           528
             16:45        10          6       9       25                          9    126      53        188         49      10     46       105           51    194        11      256                           574
              Total       39         33      41      113                         45    536     138        719       197       36    178       411          175    711        37      923                          2166

             17:00         12         7                      11            30    13     153       23            189      45       8      45         98      49          215                4          268         585
             17:15         10         7                       9            26    12     168       26            206      65       6      38        109      46          217               20          283         624
             17:30         11        11                      19            41    12     133       34            179      47       9      46        102      48          185                9          242         564
             17:45          4         6                       2            12     3     135       33            171      58       6      40        104      36          182                8          226         513
              Total        37        31                      41           109    40     589      116            745     215      29     169        413     179          799               41         1019        2286

      Grand Total          76        64                       82          222     85   1125      254           1464     412       65     347       824      354      1510                 78         1942        4452
        Apprch %         34.2      28.8                     36.9                 5.8    76.8    17.3                      50     7.9    42.1               18.2       77.8                 4
          Total %         1.7       1.4                      1.8            5    1.9    25.3      5.7          32.9      9.3     1.5      7.8     18.5        8       33.9               1.8          43.6




                                   PIEDMONT AV                                     PLEASANT VALLEY AV                          PIEDMONT AV                    PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                    Southbound                                         Westbound                                Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total                  RT     TH      LT App. Total            RT      TH      LT App. Total      RT     TH       LT App. Total                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:45
             16:45          10          6          9        25                     9     126      53            188      49       10      46       105       51         194                11         256         574
             17:00          12          7         11        30                    13     153      23            189      45        8      45        98       49         215                 4         268         585
             17:15          10          7          9        26                    12     168      26            206      65        6      38       109       46         217                20         283         624
             17:30          11         11         19        41                    12     133      34            179      47        9      46       102       48         185                 9         242         564
     Total Volume           43         31         48       122                    46     580     136            762     206       33     175       414      194         811                44        1049        2347
     % App. Total         35.2      25.4        39.3                               6    76.1    17.8                   49.8        8    42.3               18.5        77.3               4.2
              PHF         .896      .705        .632      .744                  .885    .863    .642           .925    .792     .825    .951      .950     .951        .934             .550          .927        .940


                                                                                                       PIEDMONT AV
                                                                                                   Out      In    Total
                                                                                                    123      122   245


                                                                                                         43      31      48
                                                                                                        RT      TH     LT




                                                                                               Peak Hour Data
                                                     1847
                                                    Total
                                     PLEASANT VALLEY AV




                                                                                                                                                                  PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                                                                                                                                                  1065
                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                    44




                                                                                                                                                         RT
                                                                   LT




                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                                                                          46
                                             1049


                                                                    811
                                              In




                                                                   TH




                                                                                                                                                         TH




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                          580




                                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 16:45
                                                                                                                                                                           762




                                                                                                 Vehicles Only
                                                                   194
                                       798



                                                                   RT




                                                                                                                                                         LT
                                                                                                                                                         136
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                                                                 1827




                                                                                                        LT      TH     RT
                                                                                                         175     33     206


                                                                                                    361      414   775
                                                                                                   Out      In    Total
                                                                                                       PIEDMONT AV
                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                   File Name        : piedmont-pleasant-s
                                                                                                                                                  Site Code        : 20
fp                                                                                                                                                Start Date       : 5/8/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                  PIEDMONT AV                        PLEASANT VALLEY AV                    PIEDMONT AV                        PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                   Southbound                            Westbound                             Northbound                          Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total          RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT     TH       LT App. Total      Int. Total
             16:00        16         19      15       50           17    102      33        152         39      20      36           95     36    131        17      184             481
             16:15        10         12      13       35           19    111      41        171         38      16      40           94     54    149        14      217             517
             16:30        16         22       8       46            9    119      44        172         30      18      42           90     48    150         9      207             515
             16:45        13          9      16       38            9    111      42        162         32      21      44           97     57    129        12      198             495
              Total       55         62      52      169           54    443     160        657       139       75     162          376    195    559        52      806            2008

             17:00          7        18        22           47      18      96      30       144      24       16      56            96     39     138       13          190        477
             17:15         12         5        13           30      11      90      31       132      40       16      45           101     57     168        5          230        493
             17:30         12        11        13           36      10      99      37       146      27       17      42            86     45     139        8          192        460
             17:45          6         5        21           32       8     113      40       161      38       17      39            94     62     116       10          188        475
              Total        37        39        69          145      47     398     138       583     129       66     182           377    203     561       36          800       1905

             18:00          5        15         5           25       2      87      43       132      30       13      37            80     60     131       10          201        438
             18:15         10        10         2           22       3      91      46       140      22        7      44            73     58     113        9          180        415
             18:30          4        14         5           23       6      69      40       115      37        9      33            79     58     120        7          185        402
             18:45          4        15         6           25       4      86      33       123      33        5      51            89     50     107        5          162        399
              Total        23        54        18           95      15     333     162       510     122       34     165           321    226     471       31          728       1654

      Grand Total         115       155       139          409    116     1174     460      1750      390     175      509         1074     624   1591     119          2334       5567
        Apprch %         28.1      37.9         34                 6.6     67.1   26.3               36.3    16.3     47.4                 26.7    68.2     5.1
          Total %          2.1       2.8       2.5         7.3     2.1     21.1     8.3      31.4       7      3.1      9.1        19.3    11.2    28.6     2.1         41.9




                                   PIEDMONT AV                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV                  PIEDMONT AV                          PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                           Northbound                            Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total       RT      TH      LT      App. Total    RT     TH       LT App. Total      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00          16         19         15        50       17    102      33       152       39      20       36           95      36     131       17         184        481
             16:15          10         12         13        35       19    111      41       171       38      16       40           94      54     149       14         217        517
             16:30          16         22          8        46        9    119      44       172       30      18       42           90      48     150        9         207        515
             16:45          13          9         16        38        9    111      42       162       32      21       44           97      57     129       12         198        495
     Total Volume           55         62         52       169       54    443     160       657      139      75      162          376     195     559       52         806       2008
     % App. Total         32.5      36.7        30.8                8.2   67.4    24.4                 37    19.9     43.1                 24.2    69.4      6.5
              PHF         .859      .705        .813      .845    .711    .931    .909       .955    .891    .893     .920         .969    .855    .932    .765         .929        .971
                                                                                    MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                          File Name     : piedmont-41-p
                                                                                                                                                                         Site Code     : 21
fp                                                                                                                                                                       Start Date    : 5/11/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                      Page No       :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                  PIEDMONT AV                                     0                               PIEDMONT AV                                   41st ST
                                   Southbound                                Westbound                             Northbound                                  Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total              RT    TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT App. Total           RT         TH        LT       App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        22         51       0       73                0     0         0           0         0      82     17        99            20           0       33              53          225
             16:15        19         62       0       81                0     0         0           0         0      66     17        83            21           0       33              54          218
             16:30        19         49       0       68                0     0         0           0         0      88     18       106            22           0       45              67          241
             16:45        19         61       0       80                0     0         0           0         0      83     20       103            21           0       44              65          248
              Total       79       223        0      302                0     0         0           0         0    319      72       391            84           0      155             239          932

             17:00         18        55           0             73      0      0        0             0         0     62       11        73          26              0      51           77         223
             17:15         21        70           0             91      0      0        0             0         0     93       17       110          18              0      60           78         279
             17:30         21        61           0             82      0      0        0             0         0     81       18        99          21              0      44           65         246
             17:45         30        78           0            108      0      0        0             0         0     66       27        93          20              0      35           55         256
              Total        90       264           0            354      0      0        0             0         0    302       73       375          85              0     190          275        1004

      Grand Total         169       487           0            656      0      0        0             0         0     621     145       766         169              0      345         514        1936
        Apprch %         25.8      74.2           0                     0      0        0                       0    81.1    18.9                  32.9              0     67.1
          Total %          8.7     25.2           0            33.9     0      0        0             0         0    32.1      7.5     39.6          8.7             0     17.8        26.5




                                   PIEDMONT AV                                    0                                 PIEDMONT AV                                 41st ST
                                    Southbound                               Westbound                               Northbound                                Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total        RT    TH       LT     App. Total     RT        TH      LT App. Total         RT         TH       LT        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00          18         55          0        73           0      0       0             0       0        62      11        73          26         0            51          77         223
             17:15          21         70          0        91           0      0       0             0       0        93      17       110          18         0            60          78         279
             17:30          21         61          0        82           0      0       0             0       0        81      18        99          21         0            44          65         246
             17:45          30         78          0       108           0      0       0             0       0        66      27        93          20         0            35          55         256
     Total Volume           90       264           0       354           0      0       0             0       0       302      73       375          85         0           190         275        1004
     % App. Total         25.4      74.6           0                     0      0       0                     0      80.5    19.5                  30.9         0          69.1
              PHF         .750      .846        .000      .819        .000   .000    .000          .000    .000      .812    .676      .852        .817      .000          .792        .881         .900


                                                                                           PIEDMONT AV
                                                                                       Out      In    Total
                                                                                        492      354   846


                                                                                             90      264        0
                                                                                            RT      TH     LT




                                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                           438
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                      190




                                                                                                                                              RT
                                                      LT




                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                   North
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                          275
                                     41st ST




                                                      0
                                         In




                                                          TH




                                                                                                                                              TH




                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                      Vehicles Only
                                                       85
                                           163



                                                      RT




                                                                                                                                              LT
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                            LT      TH     RT
                                                                                              73     302        0


                                                                                        349      375   724
                                                                                       Out      In    Total
                                                                                           PIEDMONT AV
                                                                                MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                       File Name    : piedmont-41-s
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code    : 21
fp                                                                                                                                                    Start Date   : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                   Page No      :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                  PIEDMONT AV                                 0                               PIEDMONT AV                       41st ST
                                   Southbound                            Westbound                             Northbound                      Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total          RT    TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT App. Total    RT    TH        LT   App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00        21         68       0       89            0     0         0           0         0      76     14        90     15      0       37          52          231
             16:15        24         75       0       99            0     0         0           0         0      85     15       100     16      0       40          56          255
             16:30        23         60       0       83            0     0         0           0         0      66     12        78     13      0       36          49          210
             16:45        36         70       0      106            0     0         0           0         0      76     18        94     14      0       33          47          247
              Total      104       273        0      377            0     0         0           0         0    303      59       362     58      0      146         204          943

             17:00         27        76          0         103      0      0        0            0     0       80       14        94     26      0       32          58         255
             17:15         22        67          0          89      0      0        0            0     0       69       10        79     26      0       27          53         221
             17:30         24        59          0          83      0      0        0            0     0       74       12        86     15      0       35          50         219
             17:45         22        76          0          98      0      0        0            0     0       62       14        76     13      0       29          42         216
              Total        95       278          0         373      0      0        0            0     0      285       50       335     80      0      123         203         911

             18:00         22        68          0          90      0      0        0            0     0       54       14        68     22      0       36          58         216
             18:15         11        72          0          83      0      0        0            0     0       67        9        76     21      0       28          49         208
             18:30         17        73          0          90      0      0        0            0     0       75       19        94     13      0       32          45         229
             18:45         29        48          0          77      0      0        0            0     0       75       15        90     27      0       28          55         222
              Total        79       261          0         340      0      0        0            0     0      271       57       328     83      0      124         207         875

      Grand Total         278       812          0       1090       0      0        0            0     0      859      166      1025    221      0      393         614        2729
        Apprch %         25.5      74.5          0                  0      0        0                  0     83.8     16.2                36     0       64
          Total %        10.2      29.8          0        39.9      0      0        0            0     0     31.5       6.1      37.6    8.1     0     14.4        22.5




                                   PIEDMONT AV                                0                             PIEDMONT AV                         41st ST
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                           Northbound                        Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT    TH       LT    App. Total    RT      TH      LT App. Total      RT    TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:15
             16:15          24         75          0        99       0      0       0            0      0      85       15       100      16      0      40          56         255
             16:30          23         60          0        83       0      0       0            0      0      66       12        78      13      0      36          49         210
             16:45          36         70          0       106       0      0       0            0      0      76       18        94      14      0      33          47         247
             17:00          27         76          0       103       0      0       0            0      0      80       14        94      26      0      32          58         255
     Total Volume          110       281           0       391       0      0       0            0      0     307       59       366      69      0     141         210         967
     % App. Total         28.1      71.9           0                 0      0       0                   0    83.9     16.1              32.9      0    67.1
              PHF         .764      .924        .000      .922    .000   .000    .000        .000    .000    .903     .819       .915   .663   .000    .881        .905         .948
                                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                         File Name            : moraga-pleasant-p
                                                                                                                                                                                        Site Code            : 23
fp                                                                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 5/13/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                     Page No              :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   MORAGA AV                                         PLEASANT VALLEY AV                                     0                              PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                   Southbound                                            Westbound                                     Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total                          RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT               TH      LT    App. Total         RT     TH       LT App. Total                  Int. Total
             16:00        63          0       5       68                            9     93       0        102          0               0        0            0          0    109        99      208                         378
             16:15        57          0       2       59                            2    111       0        113          0               0        0            0          0    118        87      205                         377
             16:30        55          0       1       56                            9    101       0        110          0               0        0            0          0    133      108       241                         407
             16:45        63          0       7       70                            4    105       0        109          0               0        0            0          0    162        88      250                         429
              Total      238          0      15      253                           24    410       0        434          0               0        0            0          0    522      382       904                        1591

             17:00        76            0                    5              81       6    102        0             108             0     0       0             0            0         152             120        272         461
             17:15        82            0                    2              84       5    102        0             107             0     0       0             0            0         157             133        290         481
             17:30        69            0                    1              70      10    110        0             120             0     0       0             0            0         164             146        310         500
             17:45        97            0                    4             101      20    113        0             133             0     0       0             0            0         154             111        265         499
              Total      324            0                   12             336      41    427        0             468             0     0       0             0            0         627             510       1137        1941

      Grand Total         562           0                    27            589      65     837       0             902             0     0       0             0            0      1149                892      2041        3532
        Apprch %         95.4           0                   4.6                    7.2    92.8       0                             0     0       0                          0       56.3              43.7
          Total %        15.9           0                   0.8            16.7    1.8    23.7       0             25.5            0     0       0             0            0       32.5              25.3       57.8




                                    MORAGA AV                                        PLEASANT VALLEY AV                                     0                              PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                    Southbound                                           Westbound                                     Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total                    RT     TH      LT App. Total                 RT      TH      LT    App. Total         RT     TH       LT App. Total                  Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00          76          0           5       81                        6    102       0             108           0        0       0            0           0          152              120       272         461
             17:15          82          0           2       84                        5    102       0             107           0        0       0            0           0          157              133       290         481
             17:30          69          0           1       70                       10    110       0             120           0        0       0            0           0          164              146       310         500
             17:45          97          0           4      101                       20    113       0             133           0        0       0            0           0          154              111       265         499
     Total Volume          324          0          12      336                       41    427       0             468           0        0       0            0           0          627              510      1137        1941
     % App. Total         96.4          0         3.6                               8.8   91.2       0                           0        0       0                        0         55.1             44.9
              PHF         .835      .000        .600      .832                    .513    .945    .000             .880       .000     .000    .000        .000         .000         .956             .873       .917        .971


                                                                                                               MORAGA AV
                                                                                                     Out          In     Total
                                                                                                      551          336    887


                                                                                                          324             0     12
                                                                                                         RT         TH        LT




                                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                                     1888
                                                    Total
                                     PLEASANT VALLEY AV




                                                                                                                                                                                PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                                                 639
                                                                  510




                                                                                                                                                                   RT
                                                                  LT




                                                                                                                   North
                                                                                                                                                                    41
                                             1137


                                                                   627
                                              In




                                                                  TH




                                                                                                                                                                   TH




                                                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                                                                                                                    427




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                                         468




                                                                                                   Vehicles Only
                                                                  0
                                       751



                                                                      RT




                                                                                                                                                                   LT
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                               1107
                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                         LT         TH        RT
                                                                                                               0          0        0


                                                                                                           0              0        0
                                                                                                     Out            In         Total
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                     File Name    : moraga-pleasant-s
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code    : 23
fp                                                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                 Page No      :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                   MORAGA AV                         PLEASANT VALLEY AV                             0                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                   Southbound                            Westbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT App. Total          RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total    Int. Total
             16:00        62          0       0       62            7     92       0         99          0       0        0            0     0    138       83      221           382
             16:15        58          0       6       64            3     94       0         97          0       0        0            0     0    121       61      182           343
             16:30        53          0       1       54            6     95       0        101          0       0        0            0     0    112       77      189           344
             16:45        64          0       6       70            6    108       0        114          0       0        0            0     0    127       64      191           375
              Total      237          0      13      250           22    389       0        411          0       0        0            0     0    498     285       783          1444

             17:00        55          0         2           57       6      80       0         86       0        0       0             0     0     135      53       188         331
             17:15        48          0         5           53       8      94       0        102       0        0       0             0     0     126      67       193         348
             17:30        56          0         4           60       6      72       0         78       0        0       0             0     0     125      67       192         330
             17:45        58          0         4           62       7      76       0         83       0        0       0             0     0     117      63       180         325
              Total      217          0        15          232      27     322       0        349       0        0       0             0     0     503     250       753        1334

             18:00        55          0          0          55       7      72       0         79       0        0       0             0     0     119      50       169         303
             18:15        46          0          0          46       5      84       0         89       0        0       0             0     0     106      45       151         286
             18:30        59          0          2          61       3      72       0         75       0        0       0             0     0     100      45       145         281
             18:45        50          0          3          53       3      71       0         74       0        0       0             0     0      74      56       130         257
              Total      210          0          5         215      18     299       0        317       0        0       0             0     0     399     196       595        1127

      Grand Total         664         0         33         697      67    1010       0      1077        0        0       0             0     0    1400     731      2131        3905
        Apprch %         95.3         0        4.7                 6.2     93.8      0                  0        0       0                   0     65.7   34.3
          Total %          17         0        0.8        17.8     1.7     25.9      0       27.6       0        0       0             0     0     35.9   18.7       54.6




                                    MORAGA AV                        PLEASANT VALLEY AV                             0                       PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00          62          0           0       62        7     92       0         99        0        0       0            0      0    138      83       221         382
             16:15          58          0           6       64        3     94       0         97        0        0       0            0      0    121      61       182         343
             16:30          53          0           1       54        6     95       0        101        0        0       0            0      0    112      77       189         344
             16:45          64          0           6       70        6    108       0        114        0        0       0            0      0    127      64       191         375
     Total Volume          237          0          13      250       22    389       0        411        0        0       0            0      0    498     285       783        1444
     % App. Total         94.8          0         5.2               5.4   94.6       0                   0        0       0                   0   63.6    36.4
              PHF         .926      .000        .542      .893    .786    .900    .000       .901     .000     .000    .000        .000    .000   .902    .858       .886        .945
                                                                                          MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                                       File Name    : grand-arroyo-p
                                                                                                                                                                                      Site Code    : 24
fp                                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date   : 5/12/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                                                   Page No      :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                            PLEASANT VALLEY AV                                    ARROYO AV                                GRAND AV                                           0
                                Southbound                                        Westbound                                Northbound                                    Eastbound
       Start Time         RT     TH      LT App. Total                      RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT          TH      LT    App. Total         RT          TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0    117       20      137                        8      0       0           8         5         81        0          86           0            0       0                    0         231
             16:15         0    101       13      114                        6      0       3           9         3         74        0          77           0            0       0                    0         200
             16:30         0    120        3      123                       12      0       6         18          5         87        0          92           0            0       0                    0         233
             16:45         0    112        8      120                        5      0       2           7         6         95        0         101           0            0       0                    0         228
              Total        0    450       44      494                       31      0      11         42         19        337        0         356           0            0       0                    0         892

             17:00          0       123              21              144    11      0        2             13          2    92       0           94             0             0           0             0        251
             17:15          0       140              12              152     7      0        4             11          3    86       0           89             0             0           0             0        252
             17:30          0       133              13              146    14      0        5             19          1    99       0          100             0             0           0             0        265
             17:45          0       147              15              162     6      0        4             10          2   109       0          111             0             0           0             0        283
              Total         0       543              61              604    38      0       15             53          8   386       0          394             0             0           0             0       1051

      Grand Total           0       993             105             1098     69     0       26             95       27      723      0          750             0             0           0             0       1943
        Apprch %            0      90.4              9.6                   72.6     0     27.4                     3.6     96.4      0                          0             0           0
          Total %           0      51.1              5.4            56.5    3.6     0      1.3             4.9     1.4     37.2      0         38.6             0             0           0             0




                               PLEASANT VALLEY AV                                 ARROYO AV                                GRAND AV                                           0
                                    Southbound                                    Westbound                                Northbound                                    Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total             RT     TH      LT     App. Total        RT      TH      LT    App. Total         RT          TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            0      123          21       144               11      0       2             13        2       92       0          94            0           0               0            0        251
             17:15            0      140          12       152                7      0       4             11        3       86       0          89            0           0               0            0        252
             17:30            0      133          13       146               14      0       5             19        1       99       0         100            0           0               0            0        265
             17:45            0      147          15       162                6      0       4             10        2      109       0         111            0           0               0            0        283
     Total Volume             0      543          61       604               38      0      15             53        8      386       0         394            0           0               0            0       1051
     % App. Total             0     89.9        10.1                       71.7      0    28.3                       2       98       0                        0           0               0
              PHF         .000      .923        .726      .932             .679   .000    .750            .697    .667     .885    .000        .887         .000        .000            .000        .000         .928


                                                                                             PLEASANT VALLEY AV
                                                                                             Out    In     Total
                                                                                              424    604    1028


                                                                                                      0     543     61
                                                                                                 RT        TH     LT




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                              0
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                      69
                                                                                                                                                       RT
                                                               LT




                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                        38




                                                                                                                                                                    ARROYO AV
                                                0


                                                           0
                                      In




                                                               TH




                                                                                                                                                       TH




                                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                          53
                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                           Vehicles Only
                                                           0
                                                0



                                                               RT




                                                                                                                                                       LT
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                        15


                                                                                                                                                                               122




                                                                                                 LT        TH     RT
                                                                                                      0     386        8


                                                                                              558         394   952
                                                                                             Out         In    Total
                                                                                                      GRAND AV
                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA



CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                          File Name     : grand-arroyo-s
                                                                                                                                                         Site Code     : 24
fp                                                                                                                                                       Start Date    : 5/15/2010
Mietek 916-806-0250                                                                                                                                      Page No       :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                            PLEASANT VALLEY RD                        ARROYO AVE                               GRAND AVE                               0
                                Southbound                               Westbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time         RT      TH     LT App. Total             RT     TH      LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0     103      11      114               7      0       2           9         4      77        0          81      0      0       0              0         204
             16:15         0     109       9      118               7      0       3         10          3      95        0          98      0      0       0              0         226
             16:30         0     116       9      125              10      0       2         12          1      83        0          84      0      0       0              0         221
             16:45         0     110      18      128              16      0       2         18          7      79        0          86      0      0       0              0         232
              Total        0     438      47      485              40      0       9         49         15     334        0         349      0      0       0              0         883

             17:00          0       109        20          129      10       0       5          15      6       68       0           74      0      0        0             0        218
             17:15          0       108        11          119       8       0       0           8      1       55       0           56      0      0        0             0        183
             17:30          0       103         9          112       7       0       2           9      3       62       0           65      0      0        0             0        186
             17:45          0        96         7          103       6       0       5          11      1       71       0           72      0      0        0             0        186
              Total         0       416        47          463      31       0      12          43     11      256       0          267      0      0        0             0        773

             18:00          0        83         9           92       7       0       1           8      3       58       0           61      0      0        0             0        161
             18:15          0        76         9           85       6       0       2           8      6       54       0           60      0      0        0             0        153
             18:30          0        77        14           91       8       0       1           9      4       58       0           62      0      0        0             0        162
             18:45          0        75        11           86       9       0       3          12      3       47       0           50      0      0        0             0        148
              Total         0       311        43          354      30       0       7          37     16      217       0          233      0      0        0             0        624

      Grand Total           0     1165        137         1302     101       0      28         129      42      807      0          849      0      0        0             0       2280
        Apprch %            0      89.5      10.5                 78.3       0    21.7                 4.9     95.1      0                   0      0        0
          Total %           0      51.1         6         57.1      4.4      0     1.2          5.7    1.8     35.4      0         37.2      0      0        0             0




                              PLEASANT VALLEY RD                      ARROYO AVE                               GRAND AVE                               0
                                    Southbound                           Westbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT     TH      LT     App. Total    RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:15
             16:15            0      109           9       118       7       0       3          10       3       95       0          98       0      0        0            0        226
             16:30            0      116           9       125      10       0       2          12       1       83       0          84       0      0        0            0        221
             16:45            0      110          18       128      16       0       2          18       7       79       0          86       0      0        0            0        232
             17:00            0      109          20       129      10       0       5          15       6       68       0          74       0      0        0            0        218
     Total Volume             0      444          56       500      43       0      12          55      17      325       0         342       0      0        0            0        897
     % App. Total             0     88.8        11.2              78.2       0    21.8                   5       95       0                   0      0        0
              PHF         .000      .957        .700      .969    .672    .000    .600        .764    .607     .855    .000        .872    .000   .000     .000        .000         .967
                                                                                          MARKS TRAFFIC DATA
                                                                                          mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                                              916.806.0250
CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                     File Name       : desmond-coronado-p
                                                                                                                                                                    Site Code       :6
                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date      : 11/16/2010
fp                                                                                                                                                                  Page No         :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                             DESMOND ST                                      CORONADO AV                           DESMOND ST                                  CORONADO AV
                                Southbound                                       Westbound                            Northbound                                   Eastbound
       Start Time         RT     TH      LT               App. Total       RT    TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT         App. Total         RT    TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0       3       1                         4      0     0        0           0         3      5        0                8           0      2       1                    3          15
             16:15         0       2       2                         4      0     0        0           0         4      2        0                6           0      0       0                    0          10
             16:30         0       1       0                         1      0     0        0           0         1      1        0                2           2      1       1                    4            7
             16:45         0       4       2                         6      0     0        0           0         0      5        0                5           0      0       2                    2          13
              Total        0     10        5                        15      0     0        0           0         8     13        0               21           2      3       4                    9          45

             17:00          0         4              1               5      0       0        0               0          6     3      0            9             3           0       0             3          17
             17:15          0         4              1               5      1       0        0               1          3     9      0           12             1           0       0             1          19
             17:30          0         3              0               3      0       0        0               0         12     8      0           20             1           0       1             2          25
             17:45          0         0              2               2      0       0        0               0          5     7      0           12             1           1       1             3          17
              Total         0        11              4              15      1       0        0               1         26    27      0           53             6           1       2             9          78

      Grand Total           0        21               9             30       1      0        0               1      34        40     0           74            8         4           6          18         123
        Apprch %            0        70              30                   100       0        0                    45.9      54.1     0                      44.4      22.2        33.3
          Total %           0      17.1             7.3            24.4    0.8      0        0             0.8    27.6      32.5     0         60.2          6.5       3.3         4.9        14.6




                                DESMOND ST                                   CORONADO AV                              DESMOND ST                               CORONADO AV
                                    Southbound                                   Westbound                               Northbound                                Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total            RT    TH       LT      App. Total       RT     TH      LT      App. Total         RT    TH       LT           App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            0         4          1          5              0       0       0               0       6         3      0           9            3         0           0            3          17
             17:15            0         4          1          5              1       0       0               1       3         9      0          12            1         0           0            1          19
             17:30            0         3          0          3              0       0       0               0      12         8      0          20            1         0           1            2          25
             17:45            0         0          2          2              0       0       0               0       5         7      0          12            1         1           1            3          17
     Total Volume             0        11          4        15               1       0       0               1      26        27      0          53            6         1           2            9          78
     % App. Total             0     73.3        26.7                       100       0       0                    49.1      50.9      0                     66.7      11.1        22.2
              PHF         .000      .688        .500      .750            .250    .000    .000            .250    .542      .750   .000        .663         .500      .250        .500        .750         .780


                                                                                            DESMOND ST
                                                                                            Out   In               Total
                                                                                              30    15                45


                                                                                                      0     11         4
                                                                                                 RT        TH     LT




                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                              9
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                    CORONADO AV
                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                          2




                                                                                                                                                                      31
                                                                                                                                                       RT
                                                              LT




                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                9
                                     CORONADO AV




                                                          1
                                             In




                                                              TH




                                                                                                                                                       TH




                                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                                           Vehicles Only
                                                          6
                                          0



                                                              RT




                                                                                                                                                       LT
                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                       32




                                                                                                 LT        TH     RT
                                                                                                      0     27     26


                                                                                              17    53                70
                                                                                            Out   In               Total
                                                                                            DESMOND ST
                                                                                  MARKS TRAFFIC DATA
                                                                                  mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                                      916.806.0250
CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                   File Name    : desmond-coronado-s
                                                                                                                                                  Site Code    :6
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 11/13/2010
fp                                                                                                                                                Page No      :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                  DESMOND ST                             CORONADO AV                        DESMOND ST                        CORONADO AV
                                   Southbound                             Westbound                            Northbound                         Eastbound
       Start Time         RT        TH      LT       App. Total    RT      TH      LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0          7       4             11      0       0       0           0         3      2        0           5      3      0       0              3           19
             16:15         0          1       0              1      0       0       0           0         2      1        0           3      1      0       0              1             5
             16:30         0          1       2              3      0       0       0           0         1      5        0           6      2      1       0              3           12
             16:45         0          7       4             11      0       0       0           0         1      1        0           2      1      2       0              3           16
              Total        0        16       10             26      0       0       0           0         7      9        0          16      7      3       0             10           52

             17:00          0         1         2            3      0        0       0          0       2        0       0            2       2      0         0           2            7
             17:15          0         3         2            5      0        0       0          0       3        7       0           10       2      1         2           5           20
             17:30          0         1         0            1      0        0       0          0       2        2       0            4       0      0         0           0            5
             17:45          0         3         2            5      0        0       0          0       4        2       0            6       2      2         0           4           15
              Total         0         8         6           14      0        0       0          0      11       11       0           22       6      3         2          11           47

             18:00          0         1         2             3     0        0       0          0        0       6       0            6       1      3         0            4          13
             18:15          0         0         2             2     0        0       0          0        2       2       0            4       0      0         0            0           6
             18:30          0         1         1             2     0        0       0          0        0       1       0            1       0      0         0            0           3
             18:45          0         0         1             1     0        0       0          0        3       0       0            3       1      0         1            2           6
              Total         0         2         6             8     0        0       0          0        5       9       0           14       2      3         1            6          28

      Grand Total           0        26        22           48      0        0       0          0       23      29       0           52      15       9      3            27         127
        Apprch %            0      54.2      45.8                   0        0       0                44.2    55.8       0                 55.6    33.3   11.1
          Total %           0      20.5      17.3         37.8      0        0       0          0     18.1    22.8       0         40.9    11.8     7.1    2.4          21.3




                                    DESMOND ST                           CORONADO AV                      DESMOND ST                          CORONADO AV
                                     Southbound                           Westbound                          Northbound                           Eastbound
       Start Time           RT         TH         LT App. Total    RT      TH      LT App. Total       RT     TH      LT      App. Total    RT    TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:30
             16:30            0         1          2          3      0       0        0         0        1       5        0           6       2       1      0             3           12
             16:45            0         7          4        11       0       0        0         0        1       1        0           2       1       2      0             3           16
             17:00            0         1          2          3      0       0        0         0        2       0        0           2       2       0      0             2            7
             17:15            0         3          2          5      0       0        0         0        3       7        0          10       2       1      2             5           20
     Total Volume             0        12         10        22       0       0        0         0        7      13        0          20       7       4      2            13           55
     % App. Total             0      54.5       45.5                 0       0        0                 35      65        0                53.8    30.8   15.4
              PHF         .000       .429       .625      .500    .000    .000     .000      .000     .583    .464     .000        .500    .875    .500   .250          .650         .688
                                                                                    MARKS TRAFFIC DATA
                                                                                    mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                                        916.806.0250
CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                                          File Name     : coronado-51-p
                                                                                                                                                                         Site Code     :7
                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 11/16/2010
fp                                                                                                                                                                       Page No       :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 CORONADO AV                                  51st ST                             CORONADO AV                                      51st ST
                                  Southbound                                Westbound                              Northbound                                    Eastbound
       Start Time         RT       TH      LT App. Total            RT       TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT App. Total               RT        TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0         0       0         0             1      158         0        159          2      0        0         2                0       168        0           168          329
             16:15         0         0       0         0             1      172         0        173          0      0        0         0                3       190        0           193          366
             16:30         0         0       0         0             1      167         0        168          0      0        0         0                0       192        0           192          360
             16:45         0         0       0         0             5      141         0        146          3      0        0         3                0       243        0           243          392
              Total        0         0       0         0             8      638         0        646          5      0        0         5                3       793        0           796         1447

             17:00          0         0           0            0      4     158        0             162            0       0       0         0            0     199         0          199         361
             17:15          0         0           0            0      1     158        0             159            1       0       0         1            0     252         0          252         412
             17:30          0         0           0            0      3     167        0             170            1       0       0         1            0     280         0          280         451
             17:45          0         0           0            0      7     177        0             184            0       0       0         0            0     268         0          268         452
              Total         0         0           0            0     15     660        0             675            2       0       0         2            0     999         0          999        1676

      Grand Total           0         0           0            0     23    1298        0            1321           7        0       0         7           3     1792         0         1795        3123
        Apprch %            0         0           0                 1.7     98.3       0                        100         0       0                   0.2      99.8        0
          Total %           0         0           0            0    0.7     41.6       0            42.3         0.2        0       0       0.2         0.1      57.4        0         57.5




                                   CORONADO AV                               51st ST                                    CORONADO AV                               51st ST
                                    Southbound                              Westbound                                    Northbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total     RT      TH       LT     App. Total          RT        TH      LT App. Total         RT       TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00            0         0          0          0        4    158        0             162          0         0       0         0           0       199         0         199         361
             17:15            0         0          0          0        1    158        0             159          1         0       0         1           0       252         0         252         412
             17:30            0         0          0          0        3    167        0             170          1         0       0         1           0       280         0         280         451
             17:45            0         0          0          0        7    177        0             184          0         0       0         0           0       268         0         268         452
     Total Volume             0         0          0          0       15    660        0             675          2         0       0         2           0       999         0         999        1676
     % App. Total             0         0          0                 2.2   97.8        0                        100         0       0                     0       100         0
              PHF         .000      .000        .000      .000     .536    .932     .000            .917       .500      .000    .000      .500        .000      .892      .000        .892         .927


                                                                                         CORONADO AV
                                                                                      Out    In    Total
                                                                                        15      0     15


                                                                                                0          0        0
                                                                                           RT        TH        LT




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                          1659
                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                               1001
                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                  RT
                                                          LT




                                                                                                    North
                                                                                                                                                   15
                                          999




                                                                                                                                                               51st ST
                                     51st ST




                                                       999
                                         In




                                                      TH




                                                                                                                                                  TH




                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                   660




                                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                                                                                                                  675




                                                                                     Vehicles Only
                                                      0
                                           660



                                                          RT




                                                                                                                                                  LT
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                               1676
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                           LT        TH        RT
                                                                                                0          0        2


                                                                                          0     2      2
                                                                                      Out    In    Total
                                                                                         CORONADO AV
                                                                                   MARKS TRAFFIC DATA
                                                                                   mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                                       916.806.0250
CITY OF OAKLAND                                                                                                                                               File Name     : coronado-51-s
                                                                                                                                                              Site Code     :7
                                                                                                                                                              Start Date    : 11/13/2010
fp                                                                                                                                                            Page No       :1


                                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                                 CORONADO AV                                 51st ST                          CORONADO AV                                51st ST
                                  Southbound                               Westbound                              Northbound                           Eastbound
       Start Time         RT       TH      LT App. Total           RT       TH        LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT    App. Total    RT       TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
             16:00         0         0       0         0            3      185         0        188          1      0        0            1     0      156        0          156          345
             16:15         0         0       0         0            3      133         0        136          1      0        0            1     1      165        0          166          303
             16:30         0         0       0         0            4      145         0        149          0      0        0            0     3      154        0          157          306
             16:45         0         0       0         0            2      110         0        112          0      0        0            0     0      158        0          158          270
              Total        0         0       0         0           12      573         0        585          2      0        0            2     4      633        0          637         1224

             17:00          0         0         0            0       4     154        0         158       1        0        0             1      0     124        0          124         283
             17:15          0         0         0            0       3     138        0         141       1        0        0             1      1     133        0          134         276
             17:30          0         0         0            0       2     117        0         119       1        0        0             1      0     122        0          122         242
             17:45          0         0         0            0       8     128        0         136       0        0        0             0      1     118        0          119         255
              Total         0         0         0            0      17     537        0         554       3        0        0             3      2     497        0          499        1056

             18:00          0         0         0            0       1     133        0         134       0        0        0             0      0     116        0          116         250
             18:15          0         0         0            0       0     130        0         130       0        0        0             0      0     121        0          121         251
             18:30          0         0         0            0       1     103        0         104       1        0        0             1      0      94        0           94         199
             18:45          0         0         0            0       3      81        0          84       1        0        0             1      0      98        0           98         183
              Total         0         0         0            0       5     447        0         452       2        0        0             2      0     429        0          429         883

      Grand Total           0         0         0            0      34    1557        0        1591        7       0        0             7      6    1559        0         1565        3163
        Apprch %            0         0         0                  2.1     97.9       0                 100        0        0                  0.4     99.6       0
          Total %           0         0         0            0     1.1     49.2       0        50.3      0.2       0        0           0.2    0.2     49.3       0         49.5




                                   CORONADO AV                              51st ST                        CORONADO AV                                  51st ST
                                    Southbound                             Westbound                           Northbound                              Eastbound
       Start Time           RT        TH          LT App. Total    RT      TH       LT    App. Total     RT     TH      LT       App. Total    RT      TH       LT     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 18:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00            0         0          0          0       3    185        0         188       1        0        0             1       0    156         0         156         345
             16:15            0         0          0          0       3    133        0         136       1        0        0             1       1    165         0         166         303
             16:30            0         0          0          0       4    145        0         149       0        0        0             0       3    154         0         157         306
             16:45            0         0          0          0       2    110        0         112       0        0        0             0       0    158         0         158         270
     Total Volume             0         0          0          0      12    573        0         585       2        0        0             2       4    633         0         637        1224
     % App. Total             0         0          0                2.1   97.9        0                 100        0        0                   0.6   99.4         0
              PHF         .000      .000        .000      .000    .750    .774     .000        .778    .500     .000     .000         .500    .333    .959      .000        .959         .887
