FINAL DRAFT Traffic Analysis Report




 Crosspointe YMCA and Office
                14-TAR-385

                                                     Town of Cary, NC


                   Prepared for   Town of Cary
                                  c/o Julie Green, PE
                                  316 N. Academy Street
                                  PO Box 8005
                                  Cary, NC 27512-8005




                   Prepared by    VHB Engineering NC, P.C. (C-3705)
                                  4000 Westchase Boulevard, Suite 530
                                  Raleigh, NC 27607
                                  919.829.0328  Fax 919.829.0329
                                  www.vhb.com




                                  March 18, 2014
                                                     Executive Summary


Project Background
                 The Town of Cary has received a request from Crosspointe Church to provide a
                 traffic analysis report (14-TAR-385) for a proposed development located along
                 Carpenter Fire Station Road, just west of NC 55 in Cary (Figure 1). The proposed
                 rezoning is projected to consist of the following land uses:
                          YMCA ­ 50,300 square feet
                          Office ­ 11,900 square feet

                 It should be noted that the developer's conceptual site plan lists the build-out year
                 for the YMCA as 2017 and the offices as 2018. The Town of Cary requires that
                 rezoning cases analyze utilize a build year that is five years out; therefore for the
                 purposes of this analysis, the build year is 2019. This traffic study assumes the above
                 land uses as the worst-case for trip generation purposes.

                 Vehicular access to the development is proposed via one existing unsignalized
                 driveway and two future unsignalized driveways along Carpenter Fire Station Road
                 and Indian Wells Road (Figure 2), as follows:
                          Access #1 ­ existing full-movement access along Carpenter Fire Station
                          Road, approximately 1,350 feet west of NC 55 (across from Howard Road)
                          Access #2 ­ future right-in/right-out (RIRO) access along Carpenter Fire
                          Station Road, approximately 650 feet west of NC 55 (across from Cary Fire
                          Department No. 7)
                          Access #3 ­ future full-movement access along Indian Wells Road,
                          approximately 800 feet west of NC 55

                 The following intersections meet the Town's requirements for inclusion in the study
                 area and were analyzed for existing and future conditions, where applicable:
                          NC 55 and McCrimmon Parkway (signalized)
                          NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road (signalized)
                          NC 55 and Indian Wells Road/Morrisville Carpenter Road (signalized)
                          NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway (signalized)
                          Morrisville Carpenter Road and Louis Stephens Road (signalized)
                          Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen Boulevard (unsignalized)
                          Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #1 (unsignalized)




                                               i
                             Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #2 (future unsignalized)
                             Indian Wells Road and Access #3 (future unsignalized)

                   Analysis was performed under four (4) scenarios: Existing (2014), Background
                   (2019), Build (2019), and Build (2019) with Improvements. The Existing (2014)
                   scenario includes AM and PM peak hour analysis based on turning movement count
                   data collected in February 2014, September 2013 and February 2013. The Background
                   (2019) scenario includes existing traffic with sixteen (16) approved developments.
                   The Build (2019) scenario includes Background (2019) volumes with the addition of
                   site trips generated by the proposed development and planned roadway geometrics.
                   Future conditions with the recommended improvements in place were analyzed in a
                   Build (2019) with Improvements scenario.



Existing (2014) Conditions
                   Existing analyses were conducted based on current roadway geometrics and
                   intersection turning movement counts.

                   As reported in the Summary Level of Service (LOS) table on page x, all of the study
                   intersections are operating at acceptable overall levels of service during the AM and
                   PM peak hours, with the exception of the signalized NC 55 and Carpenter Fire
                   Station Road intersection, which is operating at LOS E in the PM peak hour.

                   Cary Transit (C-Tran) does not provide any transit service to the immediate study
                   area. The closest C-Tran service route (Route 4) runs along High House Road,
                   between downtown Cary and NC 55. However, Triangle Transit provides service via
                   Route 311, which runs within the study area, along NC 55.



Background (2019) Conditions
                   There are sixteen (16) approved developments in the vicinity projected to be
                   constructed prior to, or at the same time as the build-out of the proposed
                   development. Site traffic associated with these approved developments was
                   individually included in the Background (2019) analysis. Roadway improvements as
                   part of Parkside Town Commons were included in the Background (2019) analysis as
                   signal plans and roadway designs have been designed as part of the Parkside Town
                   Commons development. The designs include geometric improvements and signal
                   upgrades at many of the study intersections along NC 55, with the exception of
                   Morrisville Parkway, which is being improved and extended by other developers in
                   conjunction with the Town of Cary and NCDOT, and McCrimmon Parkway.
                   McCrimmon Parkway was initially proposed to be improved as part of Parkside
                   Town Commons, however the requirements were later revised, so that no
                   improvements are to be made to the NC 55 and McCrimmon Parkway intersection.




                                                 ii
In addition, the roadway plans show existing pavement along Carpenter Fire Station
Road being removed on the east side of NC 55 at the CSX rail and guardrail installed,
so that no traffic can traverse this section of Carpenter Fire Station Road in the future.
As a result, traffic that was using this section of Carpenter Fire Station was rerouted
to Morrisville Carpenter Road.

At Morrisville Parkway, the fourth leg (Morrisville Parkway Extension) of the NC 55
and Morrisville Parkway intersection was included in the Background (2019)
analysis, as it is expected to be at least partially open by 2019. Two of the approved
developments, Highcroft Reserve Phases 4 & 5 and Fryars Gate (Fryar Tract/12-TAR-
331) are committed to constructing portions of the Extension, however the
construction timeline and funding is less known beyond these two developments.
Traffic associated with four approved developments is projected to utilize the
Morrisville Parkway Extension.

A pooled fund of developer commitments will allow for installing a signal at
Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen Boulevard. Signal design plans are in the
development stages.

The specific roadway improvements and signal upgrades at the study area
intersections are listed below:

NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road
    On the west leg, storage lengths on the eastbound approach will be
       extended. Also, an additional westbound receiving lane is to be constructed.
    On the south leg, an additional exclusive northbound left-turn lane will be
       constructed.      Additional storage length modifications will also be
       implemented on the northbound approach. The northbound right-turn lane
       will be extended, as a continuous lane, to the Indian Wells Road/Morrisville
       Carpenter Road intersection.
    On the north leg, the storage for the southbound left-turn lane will be
       shortened.
    In conjunction with geometric improvements, the signal phasing will be
       modified.

NC 55 and Indian Wells Road/Morrisville Carpenter Road
    On the east leg, an additional westbound lane is to be constructed so that the
       westbound approach consists of a shared thru/left-turn lane an exclusive
       right-turn lane.
    On the north leg, storage for the southbound left-turn lane will be extended.
    In conjunction with geometric improvements, the signal phasing will be
       modified.




                               iii
                  NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway (Extension)
                      West of NC 55, a new leg of Morrisville Parkway will be constructed that
                         will consist of one receiving lane and three eastbound egress lanes.
                         Specifically, the eastbound approach will consist of an exclusive left-turn
                         lane, an exclusive thru lane, and a shared thru/right-turn lane.
                      On the east leg, an additional lane will be formed through restriping, so that
                         the westbound approach consists of an exclusive left-, thru- and right-turn
                         lanes.
                      On the north leg, a southbound right-turn lane will be constructed.
                      In conjunction with geometric improvements, the signal phasing will be
                         modified.

                  Due to the amount of traffic added by the approved developments, no additional
                  growth rate was applied.

                  Based on the Background (2019) analysis, many of the intersections are projected to
                  experience an increase in delay and degradation of level of service. Specifically, the
                  signalized NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road intersection is projected to
                  continue operating at LOS E in the PM peak hour, while the signalized NC 55 and
                  Morrisville Parkway intersection is projected to degrade from LOS C to LOS E in the
                  AM peak hour. The signalized NC 55 and Morrisville Carpenter Road/Indian Wells
                  Road intersection is projected to degrade from LOS B to LOS E in the AM peak hour
                  and LOS D to E in the PM peak hour. With the newly constructed signal at
                  Carpenter Fire Station and Cary Glen Boulevard, the level of service is projected to
                  LOS B in both the AM and PM peak hours.



Trip Generation and Assignment
                  The development is proposed to consist of the following land uses:
                           YMCA ­ 50,300 square feet
                           Office ­ 11,900 square feet

                  In order to determine appropriate trips rates for the YMCA, local traffic data was
                  collected in February 2014 at two YMCAs in Cary and Holly Springs. These results
                  were compiled and appropriate daily, AM peak hour and PM peak hour trip rates
                  were developed.

                  For the office portion of the development, trip generation was conducted based on
                  the most appropriate corresponding trip generation code included in the ITE Trip
                  Generation Manual, 9th Edition, and the suggested method of calculation in the
                  NCDOT's "Rate vs. Equation" Spreadsheet.

                  As a result, the proposed development is projected to generate 4,336 daily site trips
                  with 332 trips (214 entering, 118 exiting) occurring in the AM peak hour and 536 trips




                                               iv
                   (281 entering, 255 exiting) in the PM peak hour. The generated site trips were
                   distributed in accordance with the existing turning movement counts and land uses.



Build (2019) Conditions
                   The Build (2019) conditions account for both the Background (2019) traffic and the
                   site traffic generated by the proposed development.

                   As shown on the Summary LOS table on page x, the addition of site trips and traffic
                   diversion will lead to traffic delay and queue increases at all study area intersections.
                   The signalized NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road is projected to degrade from
                   LOS E to LOS F in the PM peak hour, while the signalized NC 55 and Indian Wells
                   Road intersection is projected to degrade from LOS E to LOS F in the PM peak hour,
                   while continuing to operate at LOS E in the AM peak hour. The signalized NC 55
                   and Morrisville Parkway intersection is projected to continue operating at LOS E in
                   the AM peak hour.

                   One unsignalized intersection is projected to have stop-controlled approaches
                   operating at LOS E or worse. The northbound stop-controlled Access #1 approach
                   along Carpenter Fire Station Road is projected to operate at LOS E in the AM peak
                   hour and LOS F in the PM peak hour.



Roadway Improvement Recommendations
                   As indicated in the traffic operations analyses, the proposed rezoning is projected to
                   have a moderate impact on the traffic operations of the surrounding roadway
                   network and intersections. Therefore, the following roadway improvements are
                   recommended in order to comply with the Town of Cary's transportation adequacy
                   requirements:

                   Frontage Widening
                   The Town of Cary requires that new developments widen the roads along the
                   frontage of their property to the standards specified in the Cary Comprehensive
                   Transportation Plan. The proposed development has frontage along Carpenter Fire
                   Station Road and Indian Wells Road. The developer will be required to construct
                   half of the ultimate cross-section for the portion of Carpenter Fire Station Road that
                   fronts the development.        As shown in the Town of Cary Comprehensive
                   Transportation Plan Update ­ Roadway Widths (amended December 16, 2010), this
                   section of Carpenter Fire Station Road is to be a 78-foot, four-lane cross-section (100-
                   foot right-of-way), including wide outside travel lanes along curbs and sidewalks on
                   both sides. Additionally, the parcel frontage along Indian Wells Road would be
                   required to be widened to its ultimate cross-section, a 35-foot, two-lane cross-section
                   (60-foot right-of-way) with bicycle lanes along cub and sidewalks on both sides.




                                                  v
Thus, the following is required along Carpenter Fire Station Road and Indian Wells
Road, along the frontage of the site:
    Widen Carpenter Fire Station Road along the entire frontage of the proposed
        development to half (1/2) of the ultimate cross-section as defined in the
        Town's Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
    Widen Indian Wells Road along the entire frontage of the parcel
        development to half (1/2) of the ultimate cross-section as defined in the
        Town's Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
                            
 Ultimate Crosssection for Carpenter Fire Station Road 




      Ultimate Crosssection for Indian Wells Road




                            vi
NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road (signalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that this intersection is projected to operate at LOS F in
the PM peak hour. In conjunction with the closure of Carpenter Fire Station Road
east of NC 55, additional demand is projected to be put on two critical movements
along NC 55 ­ the northbound left-turn at Carpenter Fire Station Road and the
southbound left-turn at Morrisville Carpenter Road. With the traffic diversion from
Carpenter Fire Station Road to Morrisville Carpenter Road, these left turns are
projected to exceed 500 vehicles per hour in at least one future peak hour. With the
construction of Parkside Town Commons, one additional geometric improvement is
recommended to mitigate the intersection:
      Construct an additional eastbound right-turn lane along Carpenter Fire
         Station that provides at least 150 feet of full storage with an appropriate
         taper. *Note that the Town of Cary has received a payment in lieu for this
         mitigation previously.*
      Develop a signal modification plan in coordination with the Town and
         NCDOT, including revised signal phasing and timings plans, to
         accommodate the new lane geometrics.

The long-term plan for Carpenter Fire Station Road is to be realigned east of NC 55
with Morrisville Carpenter Road being closed to thru traffic east of NC 55.

NC 55 and Indian Wells Road/Morrisville Carpenter Road (signalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that this intersection is projected to operate at LOS E in
the AM peak hour and LOS F in the PM peak hour. Therefore, the following
improvements are recommended at this location to meet the Town of Cary's
transportation adequacy requirements:
     Construct an exclusive eastbound right-turn lane along Indian Wells Road
        that provides at least 125 feet of full storage and an appropriate taper.
     Construct an additional westbound right-turn lane along Morrisville
        Carpenter Road that provides at least 250 feet of full storage and an
        appropriate taper.
     Restripe the southbound exclusive right-turn lane along NC 55 to a shared
        thru/right-turn lane and extend it so that it provides at least 200 feet of full
        storage with an appropriate taper.
     Construct an additional southbound receiving lane along NC 55 that extends
        approximately 1,200 feet south of the NC 55 and Indian Wells
        Road/Morrisville Carpenter Road intersection.
     Develop a signal modification plan in coordination with the Town and
        NCDOT, including revised signal phasing and timings plans, to
        accommodate the new lane geometrics.

As mentioned previously, the closure of Carpenter Fire Station Road east of NC 55 is
projected to result additional strain on the southbound left-turn along NC 55 at
Morrisville Carpenter Road. The plans associated with the Parkside Town Commons
development calls for the southbound left-turn lane to be extended to approximately
550 feet to accommodate the high vehicular demand projected at this location in the




                              vii
future. In addition, an exclusive westbound right-turn lane along Morrisville
Carpenter Road is called out in the Parkside Town Commons plans. Another
southbound left-turn lane would be an ideal mitigation at this location; however
there would be issues widening over the railroad traffic along Morrisville Carpenter
Road, east of NC 55.

NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway (signalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that this intersection is projected to operate at LOS E
during the AM peak hour.             Therefore, the following improvements are
recommended at this location to meet the Town of Cary's transportation adequacy
requirements:
     Construct an additional southbound left-turn lane along NC 55, forming
        dual left-turn lanes, so that the two left-turn lanes have an average storage
        length of 300 feet with appropriate tapers.
     Develop a signal modification plan in coordination with the Town and
        NCDOT, including revised signal phasing and timings plans, to
        accommodate the new lane geometrics.

**These improvements are consistent with mitigations recommended in the Carpenter ACCP
TAR (13-TAR-372) and have been offered by Carpenter ACCP; however the zoning has not
been approved yet**

Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #1/Howard Road (unsignalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that the stop-controlled northbound Access #1 approach
along Carpenter Fire Station Road is projected to operate at LOS E in the AM peak
hour and LOS F in the PM peak hour. Therefore, the following driveway
configuration is recommended at this location:
     Construct Access #1 to provide for one ingress lane and two egress lanes,
        consisting of a shared thru/left-turn lane and a right-turn lane that provides
        at least 150 feet of full storage with an appropriate taper.

Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #2 (unsignalized, right-in/right-out)
The traffic analysis indicates that the stop-controlled northbound Access #2 approach
along Carpenter Fire Station Road is projected to operate acceptably during both
peak hours. Therefore, the following driveway configuration is recommended at this
location:
     Construct the northbound Access #2 approach to provide one ingress lane
        (right-in) and one egress lane (right-out).
     Utilize the CTP widening to form an exclusive eastbound right-turn lane
        along Carpenter Fire Station Road that provides at least 100 feet of full
        storage and an appropriate taper.

Indian Wells Road and Access #3 (unsignalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that the stop-controlled southbound Access #3
approach along Indian Wells Road is projected to operate acceptably during both




                             viii
peak hours. Therefore, the following driveway configuration is recommended at this
location:
     Construct the south Access #3 approach to provide one ingress lane and one
        egress lane.

The rest of the study intersections are projected to operate at acceptable levels of
service under both the Background (2019) and Build (2019) conditions. Therefore, no
further improvements are recommended.




                             ix
                                                        Summary Level of Service Table
                                                  Ex isting (2 0 1 4 )        Back ground (2 0 1 9 )              Build (2 0 1 9 )            Im pro ved (2 0 1 9 )


        Inte rsectio n and Approach              AM                 PM         AM               PM           AM                  PM           AM                PM

                                                   D              E              C              E              C                  F             C              E
NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road
                                            (44.5 sec/veh) (57.5 sec/veh) (28.5 sec/veh) (59.0 sec/veh) (30.4 sec/veh)          (106.8   (29.2 sec/veh) (58.9 sec/veh)
Eastbound                                          E              F              E              F              E                  F             E              F
Westbound                                         F                  F          A               A             A                      A         A                 A
Northbound                                        D                  E          C               D             C                      D         C                D
Southbound                                         C              C              C              E              C              F              B              E
NC 55 and Morrisville Carpenter                    B              D              E              E              E              F              E              D
Road/Indian Wells Road                      (18.1 sec/veh) (37.1 sec/veh) (69.0 sec/veh) (57.6 sec/veh) (74.3 sec/veh) (96.1 sec/veh) (68.9 sec/veh) (36.8 sec/veh)
Eastbound                                          E              D              E              D              D              D              D              D
Westbound                                         F                  F          E                F            F                      F         F                 E
Northbound                                        A                  A          F               E             F                      D         F                D
Southbound                                         A              A              D              D              D              F              D              C
Morrisville Carpenter Road and Louis               B              B              B              B              B              B              B              B
Stephens Road                               (11.8 sec/veh) (15.0 sec/veh) (12.5 sec/veh) (16.2 sec/veh) (12.9 sec/veh) (16.8 sec/veh) (12.9 sec/veh) (16.8 sec/veh)
Southbound                                         A              B              A              B              A              B              A              B
Westbound                                         B                  B          B               B             B                      B         B                 B
Northbound                                        B                  B          B               B             C                      B         C                 B
Southbound                                         A              B              A              B              A              B              A              B
                                                   B              B              C              C              C              D              C              D
NC 55 and McCrimmon Parkway
                                            (16.7 sec/veh) (19.2 sec/veh) (25.1 sec/veh) (31.2 sec/veh) (25.7 sec/veh) (36.4 sec/veh) (25.2 sec/veh) (36.2 sec/veh)
Eastbound                                          E              E              E              F              E              F              E              F
Northbound                                        A                  B          B               B             B                      B         B                 B
Southbound                                         B              B              B              C              B              D              B              D
                                                   C              B              E              C              E              D              E              D
NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway
                                            (24.4 sec/veh) (17.7 sec/veh) (72.3 sec/veh) (29.2 sec/veh) (75.3 sec/veh) (37.1 sec/veh) (70.2 sec/veh) (38.1 sec/veh)
Eastbound                                        N/A            N/A              F              E              F              E              F              E
Westbound                                         E                 D           F               E             F                      E         F                 E
Northbound                                        C                  B          F               C             E                      D         E                 C
Southbound                                        B                  B           C              B              C              C              C              C
Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen                                        B              B              B              B              B              B
                                                N/A               N/A
Boulevard                                                                 (12.3 sec/veh) (12.7 sec/veh) (12.4 sec/veh) (13.0 sec/veh) (13.3 sec/veh) (13.0 sec/veh)
Eastbound                                         -                  -           B              B              B              B              B              B
Westbound                                         -                  -          B               B             B                      B         B                 B
Northbound                                        B                  B          B               B             B                      B         B                 B
Southbound                                        C                  C          B               B             B                      B         B                 B
Carpenter Fire Station Road and Howard
                                                N/A               N/A         N/A             N/A           N/A                 N/A          N/A               N/A
Road/Access #1
Northbound                                        A                  B          C               C             E                      F         E                 F
Southbound                                        A                  A          B               A             B                      A         B                 A
Carpenter Fire Station Road and Fire
                                                N/A               N/A         N/A             N/A           N/A                 N/A          N/A               N/A
Station/Access #2
Northbound                                        -                  -          -                -            C                      B         C                 B
Southbound                                        A                  A          A               A             A                      A         A                 A

Indian Wells Road and Access #3                   -                  -          -                -          N/A                 N/A          N/A               N/A

Southbound                                        -                  -          -                -            A                      A         A                 A
                                         LEGEND: X = Overall signalized intersection LOS;
                        (XX sec) = Overall signalized intersection control delay in seconds; X = approach LOS




                                                                               x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NC 55


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              200'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             200'
                                                                                                                                                                                                       McCrimmon                  SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Parkway                    45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    275'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    275'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  225'
                                                   Cary Glen                                                        Howard                                                 Fire  Station
                                                   Boulevard                                                         Road                                                   Driveway

                                                       SPEED
                                                        LIMIT
                                                       35
                                                                                 Approximately 3,650 feet                                 Approximately 675 feet                                             Approximately 650 feet




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Approximately 2,950 feet




                                                250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             250'
                                                                       200'                                                   200'
 Carpenter Fire Station                                                                                                                                                                                             SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LIMIT
        Road                                                                                                                                                                                                        45
                                         200'                                                                150'                                                                                                                                                                   250'
                                                                                                                                                                    100'
                                                                                                             150'
                                                                                                                                                                                  $
                                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    150'




                                                                125'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Carpenter Fire Station




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             300'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    *The Town of Cary has 




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            cont.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *                                                                                                            Pavement to be removed at the 
                                                                                                                                                                                                previously recieved a payment 
                                                                                                                             150'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CSX crossing and guardrails are to 
                                                                                                                                                                                                  in lieu for this mitigation  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           be installed  so that no traffic can 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           traverse Carpenter Fire Station 
                                                       SPEED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Road at this location.
                                                        LIMIT                                               Access #1
                                                       35                                                                                                          Access #2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Carpenter Fire Station
                                                   Cary Glen                                                                        Proposed Development                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Road
                                                   Boulevard
                                                                                                                                     YMCA - 50,300 square feet
                                                                                                                                     Office - 11,900 square feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Approximately 1,050 feet




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Road

                                                                                                                                                                                    Access #3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Approximately 800 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              35


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  550'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              200'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      175'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    250'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               200'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SPEED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SPEED
                                                                              Indian Wells                                                                                                                                     LIMIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MorrisvilleCarpenter
                                                                                  Road                                                                                                                                        35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      35               Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            150'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                125'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cont.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   225'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     225'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Approximately 3,600 feet
                                 LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            **These improvements have been 
     Lane Configuration                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        identified and offered by the 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Carpenter ACCP development (13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Approximately 2,450 feet




     Existing Roadway                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TAR372); however, the rezoning 
     Future Roadway                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             has not yet been approved.                                                                                Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Carry for approximately
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       300'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,200  feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      250'




     Existing Signalized Intersection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cont.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     **                        175'
     Future Signal Installed by Others                                                                                                                                                     Morrisville                                                                                                                                                                            SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                                                            Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45                       Parkway
     Existing Stop Controlled Approach                                                                                                                                                     Extension                                                                            400'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    300'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   275'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     150'




$ Future Stop Controlled Approach
"
!
     Improvements by Others
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SPEED
     Recommended Geometrics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50
     Required Frontage Widening
     Signal Modification by Others
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NC 55
     Recommended Signal Modification

     Signal Modification by Others and Recommended Futher Modification


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Crosspointe Church YMCA and
                                                                                                                                        Figure ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Office (14-TAR-385)
                                                                                                                    Future (2019) Lane Configuration and Traffic Control                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Town of Cary, NC
                                                        Table ofContents


Introduction .....................................................................................................1
Existing (2014) Conditions .............................................................................5
        Existing Roadway Conditions .............................................................. 5
        Existing Turning Movement Data ...................................................... 11
        Existing Transit Operations................................................................ 11
        Level of Service Criteria ..................................................................... 12
        Level of Service Analysis ................................................................... 12
Background (2019) Conditions ................................................................... 16
        Background Growth and Development ............................................ 16
        Level of Service Analysis ................................................................... 22
Build (2019) Conditions .............................................................................. 25
        Trip Generation .................................................................................. 25
        Traffic Distribution and Assignment ................................................. 26
        Level of Service Analysis ................................................................... 30
Findings and Conclusions ........................................................................... 33


Appendices

APPENDIX A: Turning Movement Counts

APPENDIX B: Traffic Signal Plans and Timings

APPENDIX C: Intersection Capacity Analysis

APPENDIX D: Background Projects

APPENDIX E: Parkside Town Commons Roadway Plans




                                       xii
                                                                                           Tables


Table No.   Description                                                                               Page


   1        Weekday Peak Hour Turning Movement Count Schedule ................... 11

    2       Level of Service Descriptions for Intersections .................................... 12

    3       Existing (2014) LOS Results ................................................................. 14

    4       Background (2019) LOS Results .......................................................... 23

    5       Trip Generation Rates (Vehicle Trips) ................................................... 26

    6       Build (2019) LOS Results ...................................................................... 31

    7       Summary of LOS Results ....................................................................... 38




                                 xiii
                                                                                                    Figures


Figure No.   Description                                                                                           Page


    1        Vicinity Map .............................................................................................. 3

    2        Site Plan ................................................................................................... 4

    3        Existing (2014) Lane Geometrics and Traffic Control ......................... 10

   4         Existing (2014) AM and PM Peak Hour Turning
             Movement Volumes ............................................................................... 15

    5        Background (2019) AM and PM Peak Hour Turning
             Movement Volumes ............................................................................... 24

    6        AM and PM Peak Hour Directional Distribution Percentages ............. 28

    7        AM and PM Peak Hour Site Trips .......................................................... 29

    8        Build (2019) AM and PM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes ..... 32

   9         Future (2019) Lane Geometrics and Traffic Control ........................... 39




                                     xiv
                                                                              1
                                                       Introduction


The Town of Cary has received a request from Crosspointe Church to provide a
traffic analysis report (14-TAR-385) for a proposed development located along
Carpenter Fire Station Road, just west of NC 55 in Cary (Figure 1). The proposed
rezoning is projected to consist of the following land uses:
         YMCA ­ 50,300 square feet
         Office ­ 11,900 square feet

It should be noted that the developer's conceptual site plan lists the build-out year
for the YMCA as 2017 and the offices as 2018. The Town of Cary requires that
rezoning cases analyze utilize a build year that is five years out; therefore for the
purposes of this analysis, the build year is 2019. This traffic study assumes the above
land uses as the worst-case for trip generation purposes.

Vehicular access to the development is proposed via one existing unsignalized
driveway and two future unsignalized driveways along Carpenter Fire Station Road
and Indian Wells Road (Figure 2), as follows:
         Access #1 ­ existing full-movement access along Carpenter Fire Station
         Road, approximately 1,350 feet west of NC 55 (across from Howard Road)
         Access #2 ­ future right-in/right-out (RIRO) access along Carpenter Fire
         Station Road, approximately 650 feet west of NC 55 (across from Cary Fire
         Department No. 7)
         Access #3 ­ future full-movement access along Indian Wells Road,
         approximately 800 feet west of NC 55

The following intersections meet the Town's requirements for inclusion in the study
area and were analyzed for existing and future conditions, where applicable:
         NC 55 and McCrimmon Parkway (signalized)
         NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road (signalized)
         NC 55 and Indian Wells Road/Morrisville Carpenter Road (signalized)
         NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway (signalized)
         Morrisville Carpenter Road and Louis Stephens Road (signalized)
         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen Boulevard (unsignalized)
         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #1 (unsignalized)
         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #2 (future unsignalized)
         Indian Wells Road and Access #3 (future unsignalized)




                              1
VHB Engineering NC, PC was retained by the Town of Cary to analyze the potential
traffic impacts of the proposed development and to identify any necessary roadway
improvements. This Traffic Analysis Report (TAR) summarizes trip generation,
distribution, traffic assignment, and traffic analyses for the proposed development.




                             2
                             0  4
                           NC 5




                                                              !
                                                              P
         MCCRIMMON




                                                                                                       LOUIS STEPHENS
                                                         HOWARD
                                                                                                           !
                                                                                                           P




                                                                                           R
                                                                                         TE
                                                            !
                                                            P




                                                                                       EN
      CARY GLEN




                                                                  !
                                                                  P




                                                                                      P
                                                                                   AR
                  CARPENTER FIRE STATION                              !
                                                                      P




                                                                                  EC
                                                                                  LL
           !
           P




                                                                                   I
                                                                                SV
                                                                              RI
                                                                           OR
                                                                          M
                                                            LS
                                                                  !
                                                                  P   !
                                                                      P
                                                        WEL
                                                 ND IAN
                                                I




                                                                          !
                                                                          P
                            NC 540




                                                                                                MORRISVILLE
                                                                          NC 55




Legend

  !
  P      Study Intersections

         Morrisville Parkway Extension
                                                                      0           0.25            0.5 Miles
         Proposed Site
                                                                                                       NC OneMap


                                           Crosspointe Church YMCA and Office (14-TAR-385)
Figure 1: Vicinity Map
                                                                                  Cary, NC
                                                                                           FEBRUARY 2014
                                                                                                 2
                                         Existing (2014) Conditions


Existing Roadway Conditions

                    This section describes the existing roadways in the vicinity of the proposed
                    development. Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) data for the surrounding
                    network of roadway were obtained from the North Carolina Department of
                    Transportation (NCDOT). The most recent AADT counts from the NCDOT are for
                    2011 on the study area roadways.

                    NC 55
                          NC 55 is a four-lane divided major thoroughfare with a posted speed limit of
                          50 miles per hour (mph) within the study area.
                          The land uses along NC 55 are a mix of commercial, residential and open land
                          within the study area.
                          According to the NCDOT, the 2011 AADT on NC 55 was 29,000 vehicles per
                          day (vpd) south of McCrimmon Parkway.




          Looking north along NC 55 between Morrisville    Looking north along NC 55 at the Morrisville
          Carpenter Road and Carpenter Fire Station Road              Parkway intersection




                                                   5
         McCrimmon Parkway
               McCrimmon Parkway is primarily a three/four-lane divided roadway with a
               posted speed limit of 45 mph between NC 55 and Green Level Church Road
               and 35 mph west of Green Level Church Road.
               The land uses along McCrimmon Parkway within the study include
               residential uses and open land along the south side, and open land with
               Panther Creek High School on the north side.
               No AADT information is available from the NCDOT for McCrimmon
               Parkway in 2011.




Looking east along McCrimmon Parkway at the
                                              Looking east along McCrimmon Parkway at NC 55
         Highcroft Drive intersection



         Carpenter Fire Station Road (SR 1624)
               Carpenter Fire Station Road is a two-lane undivided roadway with a posted
               speed limit of 45 mph.
               The land uses along Carpenter Fire Station Road are a mix of commercial,
               residential and institutional within the study area.
               According to the NCDOT, the 2011 AADT on Carpenter Fire Station Road
               was 11,000 vpd west of NC 55.




                                       6
Looking west along Carpenter Fire Station Road at   Looking east along Carpenter Fire Station Road at
     the Howard Road/Access #1 intersection             the Howard Road/Access #1 intersection


           Morrisville Carpenter Road (SR 3014)
                  Morrisville Carpenter Road is a two-lane undivided roadway with a posted
                  speed limit of 35 mph within the study area.
                  The land uses along Morrisville Carpenter Road are a mix of commercial and
                  residential within the study area.
                  According to the NCDOT, the 2011 AADT on Morrisville Carpenter Road was
                  7,500 vpd east of Carpenter Fire Station Road.




Looking east along Morrisville Carpenter Road at    Looking west along Morrisville Carpenter Road at
     the Louis Stephens Drive intersection                       the NC 55 intersection


           Indian Wells Road (SR 1623)
                  Indian Wells Road is a two-lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit
                  of 35 mph.
                  The land uses along Indian Wells Road are primarily residential within the
                  study area.
                  According to the NCDOT, the 2011 AADT on Indian Wells Road was 310 vpd
                  west of NC 55.




                                           7
Looking west along Indian Wells Road from the NC   Looking east along Indian Wells Road at the NC 55
                 55 intersection                                       intersection


           Morrisville Parkway
                 Morrisville Parkway is a four-lane divided roadway in the study area. The
                 posted speed limit on Morrisville Parkway is 45 mph.
                 In the future, Morrisville Parkway will be extended from NC 55 to Green
                 Level Church road with a planned interchanged at NC 540 (Western Wake
                 Freeway).
                 No AADT information is available from the NCDOT for Morrisville Parkway
                 in 2011.




Looking west along Morrisville Parkway at the NC     Looking west along Morrisville Parkway at the
                 55 intersection                           Carpenter Upchurch intersection


           Louis Stephens Drive
                 Louis Stephens Drive is a four-lane roadway north of Morrisville Parkway
                 and a two-lane roadway between Morrisville Parkway and Morrisville
                 Carpenter Roadoad with a posted speed limit of 35 mph within the study
                 area.




                                          8
                 The land uses along Louis Stephens Drive are primarily residential with some
                 institutional and recreational uses.
                 According to the NCDOT, the 2011 AADT Louis Stephens Drive was 5,600
                 vpd north of Morrisville Carpenter Road.




Looking south along Louis Stephens Drive at the   Looking north along Louis Stephens Drive at the
    Morrisville Carpenter Road intersection           Morrisville Carpenter Road intersection


          Cary Glen Boulevard
                 Cary Glen Boulevard is a two-lane undivided roadway with a posted speed
                 limit of 35 mph in the area.
                 The land uses along Cary Glen Boulevard are residential and retail within the
                 study area.
                 No AADT information is available from the NCDOT for Cary Glen Boulevard
                 in 2011.




Looking north along Cary Glen Boulevard at the    Looking south along Cary Glen Boulevard at the
   Carpenter Fire Station Road intersection          Carpenter Fire Station Road intersection


          Figure 3 provides a schematic diagram of the roadways near the proposed
          development including the existing intersection geometrics.                                




                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NC 55


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              200'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                200'
                                                                                                                                                                                             McCrimmon                 SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                              Parkway                   45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       275'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       275'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                225'
                                                   Cary Glen                                                        Howard                                              Fire  Station
                                                   Boulevard                                                         Road                                                Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NCDOT 2011 AADT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              29,000 VPD
                                                       SPEED
                                                        LIMIT
                                                       35                        Approximately 3,650 feet                                Approximately 675 feet                                   Approximately 650 feet




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Approximately 2,950 feet




                                                250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              250'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                250'
                                                                       200'                                                  200'
 Carpenter Fire Station                                                                                                                                                                                  SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIMIT
        Road                                                                                                                                                                                             45
                                         200'                                                                150'                                                                                                                                                      150'
                                                                                                                                                                               $
                                                                                                                                                                               "
                                                                                                                                                                               !                  NCDOT 2011 AADT
                                                                                                             150'                                                                                    11,000 VPD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                225'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           150'




                                                                125'
                                                       SPEED
                                                        LIMIT
                                                                                                            Access #1                                             Access #2
                                                       35


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Carpenter Fire Station
                                                   Cary Glen                                                                   Proposed Development                                                                                                                                                                                                 Road
                                                   Boulevard
                                                                                                                                    YMCA - 50,300 square feet
                                                                                                                                    Office - 11,900 square feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Approximately 1,050 feet




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Road

                                                                                                                                                                                 Access #3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NCDOT 2011 AADT           SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Approximately 800 feet                                                                                                                                                                               LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5,600 VPD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                225'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 175'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          200'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SPEED                                                                                                                                                                                                         SPEED
                                                                              Indian Wells                                                                                                                          LIMIT                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MorrisvilleCarpenter
                                                                                  Road                                                                                                                             35                                                                                                                                                                                                            35               Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NCDOT 2011 AADT       150'
                                                                                                                                                                                             NCDOT 2011 AADT
                                                                                                                                                                                                310 VPD                                                                                                                                                             7,500 VPD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cont.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 225'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           225'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Approximately 3,600 feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Approximately 2,450 feet




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              225'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cont.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cont.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                45                       Parkway

                                 LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 275'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           150'




     Lane Configuration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SPEED
     Existing Roadway                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50
     Future Roadway
     Existing Signalized Intersection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NC 55
     Existing Stop Controlled Approach

$ Future Stop Controlled Approach
"
!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Crosspointe Church YMCA and
                                                                                                                                          Figure 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Office (14-TAR-385)
                                                                                                                    Existing (2014) Lane Configuration and Traffic Control                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Town of Cary, NC
Existing Turning Movement Data
                    VHB Engineering NC, PC collected the AM and PM peak hour intersection turning
                    movement counts analyzed in this TAR in February 2014, with the exception of two
                    locations. The NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road turning movement data was
                    collected by VHB Engineering NC, PC in February 2013, while the NC 55 and
                    Morrisville Parkway turning movement data was collected by Ramey Kemp &
                    Associates, Inc in September 2013. Table 1 summarizes the schedule used to obtain
                    the turning movement data. A detailed summary of the traffic counts can be found
                    in Appendix A.

   Table 1:  Weekday Peak Hour Turning Movement Count Schedule 

                    Intersection                         Time Period         Data Collection Date 

                                                      7:00 AM ­ 9:00 AM            Tuesday 
    NC 55 and McCrimmon Parkway (signalized) 
                                                      4:00 PM ­ 6:00 PM        February 4, 2014 
       NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road          7:00 AM ­ 9:00 AM            Tuesday 
                   (signalized)                       4:00 PM ­ 6:00 PM        February 12, 2013 
      NC 55 and Indian Wells Road/Morrisville         7:00 AM ­ 9:00 AM            Tuesday 
            Carpenter Road (signalized)               4:00 PM ­ 6:00 PM        February 4, 2014 
                                                      7:00 AM ­ 9:00 AM          Wednesday 
     NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway (signalized) 
                                                      4:00 PM ­ 6:00 PM       September 11, 2013 
        Morrisville Carpenter Road and Louis          7:00 AM ­ 9:00 AM          Wednesday 
             Stephens Road (signalized)               4:00 PM ­ 6:00 PM        February 5, 2014 
      Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen       7:00 AM ­ 9:00 AM          Wednesday 
              Boulevard (unsignalized)                4:00 PM ­ 6:00 PM        February 5, 2014 
      Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #1       7:00 AM ­ 9:00 AM          Wednesday 
                    (unsignalized)                    4:00 PM ­ 6:00 PM        February 5, 2014 

                    The existing peak hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 4. Traffic
                    volumes were adjusted to ensure proper balancing throughout the study area.



Existing Transit Operations
                     
                    Cary Transit (C-Tran) does not provide any transit service to the immediate study
                    area. The closest C-Tran service route (Route 4) runs along High House Road,
                    between downtown Cary and NC 55. However, Triangle Transit provides service via
                    Route 311, which runs within the study area, along NC 55.




                                               11
                        



Level of Service Criteria
                       Peak hour level of service (LOS) measures the adequacy of the intersection
                       geometrics and traffic controls of a particular intersection or approach for the given
                       turning volumes. Levels of service range from A through F, based on the average
                       control delay experienced by vehicles traveling through the intersection during the
                       peak hour. Control delay represents the portion of total delay attributed to traffic
                       control devices (e.g., signals or stop signs). Table 2 provides a general description of
                       various levels of service categories and delay ranges.

                       The planned development is located within the Town of Cary's "Base Benefit Zone"
                       as defined in the Town of Cary Land Development Ordinance (LDO). Level of
                       service in the "Base Benefit Zone" is based on an analysis of the average peak hour
                       with LOS D considered acceptable for both signalized intersections and unsignalized
                       approaches. For signalized intersections, when the background analysis yields a
                       level of service worse than LOS D, no increase in overall intersection delay is allowed
                       under build conditions. For unsignalized intersections where the stop-controlled
                       approach is below a LOS D under background conditions, the installation of a traffic
                       signal shall only be required when the intersection meets required warrants for a
                       signal, and the new signal does not cause an undesirable delay in the surrounding
                       roadway system.

   Table 2:  Level of Service Description for Intersections 

                                                                   Signalized             Unsignalized 
           Level of Service           Description 
                                                                  Intersection            Intersection 

                  A                 Little or no delay             <= 10 sec.                <= 10 sec. 
                  B                Short traffic delay             1020 sec.                1015 sec. 
                  C              Average traffic delay             2035 sec.                1525 sec. 
                  D                Long traffic delay              3555 sec.                2535 sec. 
                  E              Very long traffic delay           5580 sec.                3550 sec. 
                  F               Unacceptable delay                > 80 sec.                > 50 sec. 



Level of Service Analysis
                       Intersection levels of service analyses were performed for the typical weekday AM
                       and PM peak hours using Synchro/SimTraffic Professional Version 7. The Existing
                       (2014) scenario analysis utilized the existing signal plans and timings from the Town




                                                     12
of Cary, which are included in Appendix B. A summary of the findings for the
Existing (2014) scenario LOS analysis can be found in Table 3 and the full
Synchro/HCS output can be found in Appendix C.

As reported in Table 3, all of the study intersections are operating at acceptable
overall levels of service during the AM and PM peak hours, with the exception of the
signalized NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road intersection, which is operating at
LOS E in the PM peak hour.




                            13
Table 3:  Existing (2014) LOS Results 

                                                                           Ex isting (2 0 1 4 )


                                 Intersection and Approach                AM                 PM

                                                                            D              E
                         NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road
                                                                     (44.5 sec/veh) (57.5 sec/veh)
                         Eastbound                                          E              F
                         Westbound                                         F                  F
                         Northbound                                        D                  E
                         Southbound                                         C              C
                         NC 55 and Morrisville Carpenter                    B              D
                         Road/Indian Wells Road                      (18.1 sec/veh) (37.1 sec/veh)
                         Eastbound                                          E              D
                         Westbound                                         F                  F
                         Northbound                                        A                  A
                         Southbound                                         A              A
                         Morrisville Carpenter Road and Louis               B              B
                         Stephens Road                               (11.8 sec/veh) (15.0 sec/veh)
                         Southbound                                         A              B
                         Westbound                                         B                  B
                         Northbound                                        B                  B
                         Southbound                                         A              B
                                                                            B              B
                         NC 55 and McCrimmon Parkway
                                                                     (16.7 sec/veh) (19.2 sec/veh)
                         Eastbound                                          E              E
                         Northbound                                        A                  B
                         Southbound                                         B              B
                                                                            C              B
                         NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway
                                                                     (24.4 sec/veh) (17.7 sec/veh)
                         Westbound                                          E              D
                         Northbound                                        C                  B
                         Southbound                                        B                  B
                         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen
                                                                         N/A               N/A
                         Boulevard
                         Northbound                                        B                  B
                         Southbound                                        C                  C
                         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Howard
                                                                         N/A               N/A
                         Road/Access #1
                         Northbound                                        A                  B
                         Southbound                                        A                  A
                         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Fire
                                                                         N/A               N/A
                         Station
                         Southbound                                        A                  A
                                   LEGEND: X = Overall signalized intersection LOS;
                  (XX sec) = Overall signalized intersection control delay in seconds; X = approach LOS




                                                       14
                                 LEGEND

     Turning Movement                                                                                                                                                                                          NC 55
     Existing Roadway

     Future Roadway

     Existing Signalized Intersection

     Existing Stop Controlled Approach                                                                                                                                                               (267) (1902)

     Future Stop Controlled Approach                                                                                                                                                                  175    611
$
"
!
XX   AM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volume                                                                                                                                  McCrimmon
                                                                                                                                                                            Parkway
(XX) PM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volume                                                                                                                                                    (87)     394

                                                                                                                                                                                             (98)     247           213     1933

                                               Cary Glen                                             Howard                                       Fire  Station                                                     (166)   (688)
                                               Boulevard                                              Road                                         Driveway
                                                                              -25                                             0                                                        -26            (46)                   99

                                                                             -(182)                                           (0)                                                  (41)               -59                   (143)

                               (44)      (5)   (15)                                    (0)    (0)   (0)                              (0)    (0)    (0)

                                34        6    27           13       (27)              1       0     0           0     (0)           0       0     0                                         (120) (1816) (110)              78     (10)

                                                            210      (330)                                      284   (617)                                        0     (0)                  46      663    90             132     (229)

 Carpenter Fire Station                                     37       (78)                                        3     (3)                                        287   (620)                                                0       (0)
        Road
                               (104)     80                                            (0)     0                                     (0)     0                                               (59)     199

                               (361)     491                                          (499)   667                                   (501)   667                                              (143)    166           135     1770     4

                                (2)       5           8     10        75               (0)    0           0     0      0             (0)     0              0                                (212)    208           (230)   (642)    (3)

                                                      (3)   (5)      (38)     74                          (0)   (0)    (2)    0                            (0)                         -94

                                                                              (85)                                            (0)                                                  -(87)
                                                                                              Access #1                                     Access #2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Carpenter Fire Station
                                               Cary Glen                                                        Proposed Development                                                                 -(35)                   7                     Road
                                               Boulevard
                                                                                                                 YMCA - 50,300 square feet                                                            -11                   -(18)

                                                                                                                 Office - 11,900 square feet

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Road

                                                                                                                                                           Access #3

                                                                                                                                            (0)    (0)

                                                                                                                                             0     0                                          (7)    (1820) (166)            27     (33)                                (247)   (200)     (70)           24     (46)

                                                                                                                                                                   0     (0)                  3       773    84              1       (3)                 -90    -(51)   153      33       19             230    (257)

                                                                  Indian Wells                                                                                    11    (22)                                                 88     (216)                                                                24     (82)    MorrisvilleCarpenter
                                                                      Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Road
                                                                                                                                     (0)     0                                                (3)      6                                                                (104)   195

                                                                                                                                     (8)    10                                                (3)      3               7    1869    187                 -(81)   -89     (294)   239              33      83      36

                                                                                                                                                                                              (2)      1            (12)    (857)   (100)                               (46)     11              (38)    (40)   (50)

                                                                                                                                                                                                      (4)                    8

                                                                                                                                                                                                       9                    -(33)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1733) (309)

                                                                                                                                                                                                      681    190            159     (238)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             83     (212)                        Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Parkway

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0    1896    175

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (2)    (764)   (206)




                                                                                                                                                                                                               NC 55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Crosspointe Church YMCA and
                                                                                                                  Figure 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Office (14-TAR-385)
                                                                                       Existing (2014) AM and PM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes                                                                                                                                              Town of Cary, NC
                                                                                               3
                           Background (2019) Conditions


Background Growth and Development
                 There are sixteen (16) approved developments in the vicinity are expected to be
                 completed prior to, or at the same time as the build-out of the proposed
                 development. Site traffic generated from those approved or planned projects was
                 individually included in the Background (2019) scenario, as described below. Due to
                 the amount of traffic added by the approved developments, no additional growth
                 rate was applied.

                 Daycare at McCrimmon Parkway and Green Level Church Road (14-TAR-380): Located to
                 the north of McCrimmon Parkway, between Green Level Church Road and Cary
                 Glen Boulevard, this development will consist of a 10,600 square-foot daycare and is
                 expected to be constructed by 2015. A traffic analysis report was prepared by Ramey
                 Kemp & Associates, Inc. and submitted to the Town of Cary on October 8, 2013. As
                 detailed in the report, the development is projected to generate 790 daily site trips,
                 129 AM peak hour site trips (68 entering, 61 exiting) and 131 PM peak hour site trips
                 (61 entering, 70 exiting). These trips were distributed to the study area intersections
                 based on the assumed distribution patterns in the report. Field visits indicate that
                 this development has not been fully constructed; therefore, 100% of the traffic
                 associated with the development was included in the Background (2019) analysis.
                 Figure D-1 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

                 Stitt Property (14-TAR-378): Located east of Sears Farm Road, north and south of
                 Green Hope School Road, this residential development will consist of 180 single-
                 family dwelling units and is expected to be constructed in three phases with the final
                 phase scheduled for completion in 2016. A traffic analysis report was prepared by
                 Ramey Kemp & Associates, Inc. and submitted to the Town of Cary on November 8,
                 2013. As detailed in the report, the development is projected to generate 1,800 daily
                 site trips, 136 AM peak hour site trips (34 entering, 102 exiting) and 178 PM peak
                 hour site trips (112 entering, 66 exiting). These trips were distributed to the study
                 area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns in the report. Field
                 visits indicate that this development has not been fully constructed; therefore, 100%
                 of the traffic associated with the development was included in the Background (2019)
                 analysis. Figure D-2 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.




                                              16
Carpenter ACCP (13-TAR-372): Located in the southeast corner of the Morrisville
Parkway and Carpenter Upchurch Road intersection, this mixed-use development
will consist of 286 apartments, a 4,500 square-foot fast-food restaurant and 6,000
square feet in general retail space. The apartments are expected to be constructed in
2015; however a 2017 year analysis was studied as the build year. A traffic analysis
report was prepared by VHB Engineering NC, PC and submitted to the Town of
Cary on December 17, 2013. As detailed in the report, the development is projected
to generate 3,848 daily site trips, 354 AM peak hour site trips (137 entering, 217
exiting) and 308 PM peak hour site trips (183 entering, 125 exiting). These trips were
distributed to the study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns
in the report. Field visits indicate that this development has not been fully
constructed; therefore, 100% of the traffic associated with the development was
included in the Background (2019) analysis. Figure D-3 in Appendix D depicts the
assigned trips.

Williams Tract Development (13-TAR-369): Located on the west side of Green Level
Church Road at the intersection of Green Level Church Road and Green Hope School
Road, this residential development will consist of 77 single-family dwelling units and
expected to be built-out in 2016. A traffic analysis report was prepared by Ramey
Kemp & Associates, Inc. and submitted to the Town of Cary on June 13, 2013. As
detailed in the report, the development is projected to generate 826 daily site trips, 64
AM peak hour site trips (16 entering, 48 exiting) and 83 PM peak hour site trips (52
entering, 31 exiting). These trips were distributed to the study area intersections
based on the assumed distribution patterns in the report. Field visits indicate that
this development has not been fully constructed; therefore, 100% of the traffic
associated with the development was included in the Background (2019) analysis.
Figure D-4 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Holland Tract Development (12-TAR-352): Located west of Green Level Church Road
and south of Austin Pond Road, this residential development will consist of 102
single-family dwelling units and expected to be built-out in 2015. A traffic analysis
report was prepared by Ramey Kemp & Associates, Inc. and submitted to the Town
of Cary on October 18, 2012. As detailed in the report, the development is projected
to generate 1,059 daily site trips, 81 AM peak hour site trips (20 entering, 61 exiting)
and 107 PM peak hour site trips (67 entering, 40 exiting). These trips were
distributed to the study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns
in the report. Field visits indicate that a small portion of this development has been
constructed and occupied; therefore, 90% of the traffic associated with the
development was included in the Background (2019) analysis. Figure D-5 in
Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Mills Tract Development (12-TAR-353): Located east of Green Level Church Road and
north of Beaver Dam Road, this residential development will consist of 117 single-
family dwelling units and be constructed by 2016. A traffic analysis report was
prepared by Ramey Kemp & Associates, Inc. and submitted to the Town of Cary on




                              17
December 5, 2012 As detailed in the report, the development is projected to generate
1,201 daily site trips, 92 AM peak hour site trips (23 entering, 69 exiting) and 121 PM
peak hour site trips (76 entering, 45 exiting). These trips were distributed to the
study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns in the report.
Field visits indicate that this development has not been fully constructed; therefore,
100% of the traffic associated with the development was included in the Background
(2019) analysis. Figure D-6 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Highcroft Village Phases 4 & 5 (11-TAR-323): Located north of Green Hope School
Road and south of the future Morrisville Parkway Extension, Phase 4 of the
development will consist of 114 single-family homes and it is expected to be
complete by 2013. Phase 5 will consist of 116 single-family homes and 61 townhomes
with an expected completion date of 2015. A traffic analysis report was prepared by
VHB Engineering NC, PC (formerly Martin/Alexiou/Bryson, PC) and submitted to
the Town of Cary on September 26, 2011. As detailed in the report, the development
is projected to generate a total of 2,783 daily site trips, with 216 AM peak hour site
trips (52 entering, 164 exiting) and 278 PM peak hour site trips (177 entering, 101
exiting). These trips were distributed to the study area intersections based on the
assumed distribution patterns in the report. Field visits indicate that a portion of this
development has been constructed and occupied; therefore 75% of the traffic
associated with the development was included in the Background (2019) analysis.
Figure D-7 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Fryar Tract Development (11-TAR-331): Located on the north side of Green Hope
School Road at Highcroft Drive, the development will consist of 250 single-family
homes, 125 townhomes, 7,500 square feet of general office space and 15,000 square
feet of general retail space, with a build-out year of 2017. A traffic analysis report
was prepared by Ramey Kemp & Associates, Inc. and submitted to the Town of Cary
on November 2, 2011. As detailed in the report, the development is projected to
generate 4,887 daily site trips, with 320 AM peak hour site trips (109 entering, 211
exiting) and 533 PM peak hour site trips (278 entering, 255 exiting). These trips were
distributed to the study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns
in the report. Field visits indicate that a very small portion of this development has
been constructed and occupied. However, due to the minimal amount of
construction and occupancy at this time, 100% of the traffic associated with the
development was included in the Background (2019) analysis. Figure D-8 in
Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Parkside Town Commons Amendment (13-TAR-350A): Located in the northeast
quadrant of the NC 55 and NC 540 interchange, this mixed-use development will
consist of 300 apartments, a 140-room hotel, a 12-screen movie theater, a 16-lane
bowling alley, 501,000 square feet of general retail space, 65,000 square feet of high-
turnover (sit-down) restaurant space, and 31,000 square feet of fast-foot restaurant
with drive-thru window space. The projected build year for the development is 2016.
A traffic analysis report was prepared by VHB Engineering NC, PC
(Martin/Alexiou/Bryson, PC) and submitted to the Town of Cary in April 8, 2013.




                              18
As detailed in the report, the development is projected to generate 53,933 external
daily site trips, with 3,101 AM peak hour site trips (1,607 entering, 1,494 exiting) and
4,472 PM peak hour site trips (2,312 entering, 2,160 exiting). These trips were
distributed to the study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns
in the report. Field visits indicate that this development has been partially
constructed, but not yet occupied; therefore, 100% of the traffic associated with the
development was included in the Background (2019) analysis. Figure D-9 in
Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Panther Creek High School Expansion (13-TAR-366): Located on the north side of
McCrimmon Parkway, between NC 55 and Green Level Church Road, this expansion
will expand the existing Panther Creek High School in order to accommodate 264
additional students and 11 teachers, with a build-out date of 2013. A traffic analysis
report was prepared by Hatch Mott MacDonald and submitted to the Town of Cary
on June 14, 2013. As detailed in the report, the expansion will result in an additional
199 AM peak hour site trips (108 entering, 91 exiting) and 9 PM peak hour site trips
(4 entering, 5 exiting). These trips were distributed to the study area intersections
based on the assumed distribution patterns in the report. Field visits indicate that
this development has not been fully constructed; therefore, 100% of the traffic
associated with the development was included in the Background (2019) analysis.
Figure D-10 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Green Hope High School Expansion (13-TAR-365): Located along Carpenter Upchurch
Road, this expansion is will expand the existing Green Hope High School in order to
accommodate an additional 480 students, with a build-out date of 2013. A traffic
analysis report was prepared by VHB Engineering NC, PC (formerly
Martin/Alexiou/Bryson, PC) and submitted to the Town of Cary on April 10, 2013.
As detailed in the report, the expansion will result in an additional 362 AM peak
hour site trips (247 entering, 115 exiting), 187 School PM peak hour trips (21 entering,
166 exiting) and 75 PM peak hour site trips (33 entering, 42 exiting). These trips were
distributed to the study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns
in the report. Field visits indicate that this development has not been fully
constructed; therefore, 100% of the traffic associated with the development was
included in the Background (2019) analysis. Figure D-11 in Appendix D depicts the
assigned trips.

RKM Retail Center (13-TAR-364): Located on the northeast corner of the Green Level
Church Road and Carpenter Fire Station Road intersection, this retail development
will consist of a 54,000 square-foot grocery store, 7,350 square feet of general retail
shops, a 14,820 square-foot pharmacy with drive-thru, two 3,200 square-foot banks
with drive-thrus, and two 3,750 square-foot fast-food restaurants with drive-thru
windows. The development has a projected build-out year of 2015. A traffic analysis
report was prepared by Ramey Kemp & Associates, Inc and submitted to the Town
of Cary on June 14, 2013. As detailed in the report, the development is projected to
generate 12,115 daily site trips, with 511 AM peak hour site trips (290 entering, 221
exiting) and 739 PM peak hour site trips (379 entering, 363 exiting). These trips were




                              19
distributed to the study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns
in the report. Field visits indicate that this development has not been fully
constructed; therefore, 100% of the traffic associated with the development was
included in the Background (2019) analysis. Figure D-12 in Appendix D depicts the
assigned trips.

Cary Park Tract MR-8 Apartments (13-TAR-363): Located in the southeast quadrant of
the Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen Boulevard intersection, this
residential development will consist of 235 apartment units and is projected to be
completed in 2015. A traffic analysis report was prepared by Hatch Mott MacDonald
and submitted to the Town of Cary on June 13, 2013. As detailed in the report, the
development is projected to generate 119 AM peak hour site trips (24 entering, 95
exiting) and 147 PM peak hour site trips (96 entering, 51 exiting). These trips were
distributed to the study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns
in the report. Field visits indicate that this development has not been fully
constructed; therefore, 100% of the traffic associated with the development was
included in the Background (2019) analysis. Figure D-13 in Appendix D depicts the
assigned trips.

Cary Park Parcel TC-3A (12-TAR-348): Located in the southeast quadrant of the
Carpenter Fire Station and Cary Glen Boulevard intersection, this office development
will consist of 20,000 square feet of office space, with a build-out year of 2014. A
traffic analysis report was prepared by Hatch Mott MacDonald and submitted to the
Town of Cary in July 2012. As detailed in the report, the development is projected to
generate 52 AM peak hour site trips (46 entering, 6 exiting) and 101 PM peak hour
site trips (17 entering, 84 exiting). These trips were distributed to the study area
intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns in the report. Field visits
indicate that this development has not been fully constructed; therefore, 100% of the
traffic associated with the development was included in the Background (2019)
analysis. Figure D-14 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Cary Glen Townhomes (12-TAR-346): Located on the east side of Cary Glen Boulevard,
this residential development will consist of 152 apartment units and is projected to be
completed in 2016. A traffic analysis report was prepared by VHB Engineering NC,
PC (formerly Martin/Alexiou/Bryson, PC) and submitted to the Town of Cary on
August 14, 2012. As detailed in the report, the development is projected to generate
926 daily site trips, with 72 AM peak hour site trips (12 entering, 60 exiting) and 85
PM peak hour site trips (57 entering, 28 exiting). These trips were distributed to the
study area intersections based on the assumed distribution patterns in the report.
Field visits indicate that this development has not been fully constructed; therefore,
100% of the traffic associated with the development was included in the Background
(2019) analysis. Figure D-15 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

Crosspointe Church Expansion: Located on the south side of Carpenter Fire Station
Road, across from Howard Road, Crosspointe Church has plans to expand the
existing facility by 25,300 square feet. No traffic analysis report was prepared for this




                              20
expansion, as it can be accomplished under the existing zoning. Therefore, trip
generation was developed using most appropriate corresponding trip generation
code included in the ITE Trip Generation Manual, 9th Edition, and the suggested
method of calculation in the NCDOT's "Rate vs. Equation" Spreadsheet. As a result,
the expansion is projected to result in 230 daily site trips, 22 AM peak hour site trips
(12 entering, 10 exiting) and 24 PM peak hour site trips (13 entering, 11 exiting).
These trips were distributed to the study area intersections based on the assumed
distribution patterns in the report. The expansion is expected to occur by 2017;
therefore 100% of the traffic associated with the expansion was included in the
Background (2019) analysis. Figure D-16 in Appendix D depicts the assigned trips.

In addition, the roadway plans show existing pavement along Carpenter Fire Station
Road being removed on the east side of NC 55 at the CSX rail and guardrail installed,
so that no traffic can traverse this section of Carpenter Fire Station Road in the future.
As a result, traffic that was using this section of Carpenter Fire Station was rerouted
to Morrisville Carpenter Road.

At Morrisville Parkway, the fourth leg (Morrisville Parkway Extension) of the NC 55
and Morrisville Parkway intersection was included in the Background (2019)
analysis, as it is expected to be at least partially open by 2019. Two of the approved
developments, Highcroft Reserve Phases 4 & 5 and Fryars Gate (Fryar Tract/12-TAR-
331) are committed to constructing portions of the Extension, however the
construction timeline and funding is less known beyond these two developments.
Traffic associated with four approved developments is projected to utilize the
Morrisville Parkway Extension.

A pooled fund of developer commitments will allow for installing a signal at
Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen Boulevard. Signal design plans are in the
development stages.

The specific roadway improvements and signal upgrades at the study area
intersections are listed below:

NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road
    On the west leg, storage lengths on the eastbound approach will be
       extended. Also, an additional westbound receiving lane is to be constructed.
    On the south leg, an additional exclusive northbound left-turn lane will be
       constructed.      Additional storage length modifications will also be
       implemented on the northbound approach. The northbound right-turn lane
       will be extended, as a continuous lane, to the Indian Wells Road/Morrisville
       Carpenter Road intersection.
    On the north leg, the storage for the southbound left-turn lane will be
       shortened.
    In conjunction with geometric improvements, the signal phasing will be
       modified.




                              21
                   NC 55 and Indian Wells Road/Morrisville Carpenter Road
                       On the east leg, an additional westbound lane is to be constructed so that the
                          westbound approach consists of a shared thru/left-turn lane an exclusive
                          right-turn lane.
                       On the north leg, storage for the southbound left-turn lane will be extended.
                       In conjunction with geometric improvements, the signal phasing will be
                          modified.

                   NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway (Extension)
                       West of NC 55, a new leg of Morrisville Parkway will be constructed that
                          will consist of one receiving lane and three eastbound egress lanes.
                          Specifically, the eastbound approach will consist of an exclusive left-turn
                          lane, an exclusive thru lane, and a shared thru/right-turn lane.
                       On the east leg, an additional lane will be formed through restriping, so that
                          the westbound approach consists of an exclusive left-, thru- and right-turn
                          lanes.
                       On the north leg, a southbound right-turn lane will be constructed.
                       In conjunction with geometric improvements, the signal phasing will be
                          modified.

                   The total approved development site trips are shown in Figure D-17 in Appendix D.
                   The Background (2019) peak hour trips are shown in Figure 5.




Level of Service Analysis
                   Intersection levels of service analyses were performed for the typical weekday AM
                   and PM peak hours using Synchro/SimTraffic Professional Version 7. Signal cycle
                   lengths and splits were optimized with Synchro as part of the future year analysis. A
                   summary of the findings for the Background (2019) scenario LOS analysis can be
                   found in Table 4 and the full Synchro/HCS output can be found in Appendix C.

                   As reported in Table 4, many of the intersections are projected to experience an
                   increase in delay and degradation of level of service. Specifically, the signalized NC
                   55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road intersection is projected to continue operating at
                   LOS E in the PM peak hour, while the signalized NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway
                   intersection is projected to degrade from LOS C to LOS E in the AM peak hour. The
                   signalized NC 55 and Morrisville Carpenter Road/Indian Wells Road intersection is
                   projected to degrade from LOS B to LOS E in the AM peak hour and LOS D to E in
                   the PM peak hour. With the newly constructed signal at Carpenter Fire Station and
                   Cary Glen Boulevard, the level of service is projected to LOS B in both the AM and
                   PM peak hours.




                                                22
Table 4:  Background (2019) LOS Results 

                                                                      Back ground (2 0 1 9 )


                               Intersection and Approach              AM               PM

                                                                        C              E
                       NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road
                                                                 (28.5 sec/veh) (59.0 sec/veh)
                       Eastbound                                        E              F
                       Westbound                                      N/A              N/A
                       Northbound                                      C                D
                       Southbound                                       C              E
                       NC 55 and Morrisville Carpenter                  E              E
                       Road/Indian Wells Road                    (69.0 sec/veh) (57.6 sec/veh)
                       Eastbound                                        E              D
                       Westbound                                       E                 F
                       Northbound                                      F                E
                       Southbound                                       D              D
                       Morrisville Carpenter Road and Louis             B              B
                       Stephens Road                             (12.5 sec/veh) (16.2 sec/veh)
                       Southbound                                       A              B
                       Westbound                                       B                B
                       Northbound                                      B                B
                       Southbound                                       A              B
                                                                        C              C
                       NC 55 and McCrimmon Parkway
                                                                 (25.1 sec/veh) (31.2 sec/veh)
                       Eastbound                                        E              F
                       Westbound                                      N/A              N/A
                       Northbound                                      B                B
                       Southbound                                       B              C
                                                                        E              C
                       NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway
                                                                 (72.3 sec/veh) (29.2 sec/veh)
                       Eastbound                                        F              E
                       Westbound                                       F                E
                       Northbound                                      F                C
                       Southbound                                       C              B
                       Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen        B              B
                       Boulevard                                 (12.3 sec/veh) (12.7 sec/veh)
                       Eastbound                                        B              B
                       Westbound                                       B                B
                       Northbound                                      B                B
                       Southbound                                      B                B
                       Carpenter Fire Station Road and Howard
                                                                     N/A              N/A
                       Road/Access #1
                       Northbound                                      C                C
                       Southbound                                      B                A
                       Carpenter Fire Station Road and Fire
                                                                     N/A              N/A
                       Station/Access #2
                       Southbound                                      A                A
                               LEGEND: X = Overall signalized intersection LOS;
              (XX sec) = Overall signalized intersection control delay in seconds; X = approach LOS




                                               23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NC 55




                                                                                                                                                                                                         (339) (2434)

                                                                                                                                                                                                          234    928

                                                                                                                                                                               McCrimmon
                                                                                                                                                                                Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                                                 (166)    461

                                                                                                                                                                                                 (105)    300           218    2507

                                                 Cary Glen                                              Howard                                       Fire  Station                                                      (170) (1162)
                                                 Boulevard                                               Road                                         Driveway
                                                                                 -19                                             0                                                         -26            (45)                  99

                                                                                -(118)                                           (0)                                                   (41)               -78                  (143)

                                                                                          (0)    (0)   (0)                              (0)    (0)    (0)

                                (48)      (14)   (21)          13       (34)              1       0     0           0     (0)           0       0     0                                          (159) (2425)    (0)             0      (0)

                                 39       12     33            234      (391)                                      323   (698)                                        0      (0)                  64     1086     0              0      (0)

 Carpenter Fire Station                                        61       (158)                                      11    (12)                                        334    (710)                                                0      (0)
        Road
                                (108)     84                                              (0)     0                                     (0)     0                                                (93)     235

                                (419)     534           58     24       116              (570)   739                                   (580)   746                                                (0)      0            296    2391     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Carpenter Fire Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pavement  to be removed at  the 
                                (30)      16            (35)   (14)     (60)              (4)     4          3      0     7             (0)     0              0                                 (400)    417           (510) (1096)    (0)                           CSX crossing  and guardrails  are 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to be installed  so that  no traffic 
                                                                                 60                          (3)   (0)   (10)    0                            (0)                          -94                                                                        can traverse  Carpenter Fire 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Station  Road at  this location.
                                                                                (74)                                             (0)                                                   -(87)
                                                                                                 Access #1                                     Access #2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Carpenter Fire Station
                                                 Cary Glen                                                         Proposed Development                                                                  -(25)                   7                      Road
                                                 Boulevard
                                                                                                                    YMCA - 50,300 square feet                                                             -12                  -(28)

                                                                                                                    Office - 11,900 square feet

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Road

                                                                                                                                                              Access #3

                                                                                                                                               (0)    (0)                                  0

                                                                                                                                                0     0                                    (0)    (8)    (2360) (432)           250    (285)                                   (250)       (200)       (70)          24     (46)

                                                                                                                                                                      0      (0)                  3      1136    352             1      (3)                  -160    -(82)      171          33          19          300    (317)

                                                                     Indian Wells                                                                                     12    (23)                                                94     (236)                                                                         24     (82)    MorrisvilleCarpenter
                                                                         Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Road
                                                                                                                                        (0)     0                                                 (3)      6                                                                   (108)        204

                                                                                                                                        (8)    12                                          0      (3)      3               8   2424    210                   -(47)   -49       (347)        300               34     83      36

                                                                                                                                                                                           (0)    (2)      3            (12)   (1346) (114)                                     (47)         12               (39)   (40)   (50)

                                                                                                                                                                                                          (4)                    8

                                                                                                                                                                                                           9                   -(33)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                 (207) (1945) (450)             341    (374)
                                  LEGEND                                                                                                                                                          71      867    304            14     (40)

      Turning Movement                                                                                                                                               Morrisville                                                116    (236)                          Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                                      Parkway
      Existing Roadway                                                                                                                                                                           (166)    168                                                         Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                     Extension
      Future Roadway                                                                                                                                                                             (33)     32               0     7     2125    209

      Existing Signalized Intersection                                                                                                                                                           (13)     21             (2)    (23)   (965)   (234)

      Future Signal Installed by Others

      Existing Stop Controlled Approach

$ Future Stop Controlled Approach
"
!                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NC 55
 XX   AM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volume

(XX) PM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volume


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Crosspointe Church YMCA and
                                                                                                                  Figure 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Office (14-TAR-385)
                                                                                      Background (2019) AM and PM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes                                                                                                                                                           Town of Cary, NC
                                                                                               4
                                            Build (2019) Conditions


                  The Town of Cary has received a request from Crosspointe Church to provide a
                  traffic analysis report (14-TAR-385) for a proposed development located along
                  Carpenter Fire Station Road, just west of NC 55 in Cary (Figure 1). The Town of Cary
                  has received a request from Crosspointe Church to provide a traffic analysis report
                  (14-TAR-385) for a proposed development located along Carpenter Fire Station Road,
                  just west of NC 55 in Cary (Figure 1).



Trip Generation
                  The development is proposed to consist of the following land uses:
                           YMCA ­ 50,300 square feet
                           Office ­ 11,900 square feet

                  In order to determine appropriate trips rates for the YMCA, local traffic data was
                  collected in February 2014 at two YMCAs in Cary and Holly Springs. These results
                  were compiled and appropriate daily, AM peak hour and PM peak hour trip rates
                  were developed.

                  For the office portion of the development, trip generation was conducted based on
                  the most appropriate corresponding trip generation code included in the ITE Trip
                  Generation Manual, 9th Edition, and the suggested method of calculation in the
                  NCDOT's "Rate vs. Equation" Spreadsheet.

                  As a result, the proposed development is projected to generate 4,336 daily site trips
                  with 332 trips (214 entering, 118 exiting) occurring in the AM peak hour and 536 trips
                  (281 entering, 255 exiting) in the PM peak hour. The generated site trips were
                  distributed in accordance with the existing turning movement counts and land
                  uses.The development is proposed to consist of the following land uses:
                           YMCA ­ 50,300 square feet
                           Office ­ 11,900 square feet




                                               25
                        In order to determine appropriate trips rates for the YMCA, local traffic data was
                        collected in February 2014 at two YMCAs in Cary and Holly Springs. These results
                        were compiled and appropriate daily, AM peak hour and PM peak hour trip rates
                        were developed.

                        For the office portion of the development, trip generation was conducted based on
                        the most appropriate corresponding trip generation code included in the ITE Trip
                        Generation Manual, 9th Edition, and the suggested method of calculation in the
                        NCDOT's "Rate vs. Equation" Spreadsheet.

                        As a result, the proposed development is projected to generate 4,336 daily site trips
                        with 332 trips (214 entering, 118 exiting) occurring in the AM peak hour and 536 trips
                        (281 entering, 255 exiting) in the PM peak hour. The generated site trips were
                        distributed in accordance with the existing turning movement counts and land uses.

                        Table 5 summarizes the assumed trip generation for the proposed development for
                        typical weekday AM and PM peak hours.

      Table 5:  Trip Generation Rates (Vehicle Trips) 
                                                  AM Peak Hour Total Trips
                                                                                     ITE MANUAL RATES*
        ITE Land Use Code                  USE               Units
                                                                             ADT     AM Enter AM Exit AM Total
           Traffic Survey        YMCA                      50,300 sf         4,205      197     116     313
                710*             Office                    11,900 sf          131        17      2       19
                                                               Total Trips   4,336      214     118     332

                                                  PM Peak Hour Total Trips
                                                                                     ITE MANUAL RATES*
        ITE Land Use Code                  USE               Units
                                                                             ADT      PM Enter PM Exit PM Total
           Traffic Survey        YMCA                      50,300 sf         4,205      278     240      518
                710*             Office                    11,900 sf          131        3       15       18
                                                               Total Trips   4,336      281     255      536
      * ITE Trip Generation, 9th Edition                                                                           



Traffic Distribution and Assignment
                        The generated site trips were distributed in accordance with the existing traffic
                        patterns and land uses in the vicinity of the study area as follows:

                                   NC 55 to the north ­ 5%
                                   NC 55 to the south ­ 5%
                                   McCrimmon Parkway to the north ­ 10%
                                   Carpenter Fire Station Road to the west ­ 21%
                                   Cary Glen Boulevard to the west (north) ­ 4%
                                   Cary Glen Boulevard to the west (south) ­ 5%




                                                      26
                Indian Wells Road to the south ­ 1%
                Morrisville-Carpenter Road to the east ­ 10%
                Louis Stephens Road to the east (north) ­ 8%
                Louis Stephens Road to the east (south) ­ 6%
                Morrisville Parkway to the east ­ 15%
                Morrisville Parkway Extension to the west ­ 10%

    The site trip percentages are depicted in Figure 6, with the resulting site trips shown
    in Figure 7.

             




                                   27
                                                                                                                                                                                              NC 55

                                                                                                                                                                                 5%

                                                                                                                                                                                             5%

                                                                                                                                                                                             5%

                                                                                                                                                                McCrimmon
                                                                                                                                                                 Parkway

                                                                                                                                                                                 10%   10%         10%   5%

                                                Cary Glen                                     Howard                                  Fire  Station                   10%                          10%   5%
                                                Boulevard                                      Road                                    Driveway
                                                                            0%                                       0%                                                     0%         0%                0%

                                                                            0%                                       0%                                                     0%         0%                0%
                               4%
                                                4%          4%      4%                                                                                                           15%

                                                4%          21%     21%                                                                                                          15%

 Carpenter Fire Station                                     5%      5%                                   25%   25%                                    25%    25%
        Road
                                                                                                                                                                                 15%   15%
                                                                                                                                             "
                                                                                                                                             $
                                                                                                                                             !
                                21%       21%                       5%           10%   10%                                10%   10%                                                                10%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Carpenter Fire Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pavement  to be removed at  the 
             21%                                                    5%           20%   20%         30%         10%        10%   10%           15%                                10%   10%         10%                                    CSX crossing  and guardrails  are 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to be installed  so that  no traffic 
                                                                            0%                     30%         10%   0%                       15%                           0%                                                            can traverse  Carpenter Fire 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Station  Road at  this location.
                                                                            0%                                       0%                                                     0%
                                                                                       Access #1                                Access #2
                                                             5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Carpenter Fire Station
                                                Cary Glen                                                Proposed Development                                                          0%                0%                 Road
                                                Boulevard
                                                                                                          YMCA - 50,300 square feet                                                    0%                0%

                                                                                                          Office - 11,900 square feet

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Road

                                                                                                                                               Access #3                                                                                          8%
                                                                                                                                1%    44%                                   0%

                                                                                                                                1%    44%                                   0%         5%    5%          5%    5%                                   8%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10%
                                                                                                                                                      44%    44%                       5%    5%          19%   19%                0%     0%         8%                                   10%   10%

                                                                 Indian Wells                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MorrisvilleCarpenter
                                                                     Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Road
                                                                                                                          1%    1%                                                                                                                  8%          8%

                                                                                                                                                                            0%   19%   19%         25%   5%                       0%     0%        10%         10%                6%
                                                                                                           1%                                                               0%   25%   25%         25%   5%                                         6%          6%                6%

                                                                                                                                                                                       0%                0%

                                                                                                                                                                                       0%                0%                                                                                    6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Road
                                                                                                                                                                                 10%   5%    15%         15%   15%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15%
                                  LEGEND                                                                                                                                         10%   5%    15%

      Turning Movement                                                                                                                                Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                       Parkway
      Existing Roadway                                                                                                                                                           10%   10%                                                Parkway
                                                                                                                                                      Extension
      Future Roadway                                                                                                                                                                                           5%

      Existing Signalized Intersection                                                                                                                                 10%                                     5%

      Future Signal Installed by Others

      Existing Stop Controlled Approach                                                                                                                                                                    5%
$ Future Stop Controlled Approach
"
!                                                                                                                                                                                             NC 55
XX% Exiting Percentage of Site Trips

XX% Entering Percentage of Site Trips


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Crosspointe Church YMCA and
                                                                                                               Figure 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Office (14-TAR-385)
                                                                                        AM and PM Peak Hour Directional Distribution Percentages                                                                                                                                   Town of Cary, NC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NC 55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (14)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11

                                                                                                                                                                                         McCrimmon
                                                                                                                                                                                          Parkway

                                                                                                                                                                                                           (28)   22            12      6

                                               Cary Glen                                             Howard                                                    Fire  Station                                                    (25)   (13)
                                               Boulevard                                              Road                                                      Driveway
                                                                           0                                                          0                                                              0            (0)                   0

                                                                           (0)                                                        (0)                                                            (0)           0                   (0)



                                               (11)        4       (10)                                                                                                                                    (42)

                                                8          25      (54)                                                                                                                                    33

 Carpenter Fire Station                                    6       (13)                                             54       (70)                                               54    (70)
        Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (38)   18
                                                                                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                                                                       !
                                (59)      45                        11           (28)     21                                                 (26)     12                                                                        21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Carpenter Fire Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pavement  to be removed at  the 
                                                                   (14)          (56)     43               35                 12             (28)     21                18                                 (26)   12            (28)                                      CSX crossing  and guardrails  are 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to be installed  so that  no traffic 
                                                                           0                               (77)              (26)     0                                (38)                          0                                                                    can traverse  Carpenter Fire 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Station  Road at  this location.
                                                                           (0)                                                        (0)                                                            (0)
                                                                                          Access #1                                                   Access #2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Carpenter Fire Station
                                               Cary Glen                                                            Proposed Development                                                                          (0)                   0                   Road
                                               Boulevard
                                                                                                                     YMCA - 50,300 square feet                                                                     0                   (0)

                                                                                                                     Office - 11,900 square feet

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Road

                                                                                                                                                                        Access #3

                                                                                                                                                      (2)      (112)                                 0

                                                                                                                                                       1        52                                   (0)          (13)   (13)          10     (14)                                  (22)

                                                                                                                                                                                94    (124)                        6      6            41     (53)                 0     (0)         17                                  21   (28)

                                                                Indian Wells                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MorrisvilleCarpenter
                                                                    Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Road
                                                                                                                                             (3)       2                                                                                                                            (20)          9

                                                                                                                                                                                                     0     (48)   22            53     11                         (0)     0         (26)         12               13

                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0)   (64)   30            (71)   (14)                                         (15)          7               (17)

                                                                                        Trip Gen                  Internal                          External                                                      (0)                   0

                                                                                           in       out                       in      out                       in      out                                        0                   (0)

                                                                                 am       214      118              am       214     118              am       214     118                                                                                                                              Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Road
                                                                                 pm      (281)     (255)            pm       (281)   (255)            pm       (273)   (255)                               (26)   (13)   (38)          32     (42)
                                  LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                   12      6     18

      Turning Movement                                                                                                                                                         Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                                                Parkway
      Existing Roadway                                                                                                                                                                                     (29)   21                                                      Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                               Extension
      Future Roadway                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11

      Existing Signalized Intersection                                                                                                                                                                                                        (14)

      Future Signal Installed by Others

      Existing Stop Controlled Approach

$ Future Stop Controlled Approach
"
!                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NC 55
 XX   AM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volume

(XX) PM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volume


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Crosspointe Church YMCA and
                                                                                                                                         Figure 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Office (14-TAR-385)
                                                                                                                               AM and PM Peak Hour Site Trips                                                                                                                                                      Town of Cary, NC
Level of Service Analysis
                   The Build (2019) analysis scenario includes the Background (2019) traffic as well as
                   site generated trips from the proposed development as described previously. Figure
                   8 depicts the turning movement volumes used in the Build (2019) scenario analysis.

                   Intersection levels of service analyses were performed for the typical weekday AM
                   and PM peak hours using Synchro/SimTraffic Professional Version 7 and Highway
                   Capacity Software (HCS 2010). Signal cycles lengths and splits were optimized within
                   Synchro/SimTraffic as part of the build year analysis.

                   Table 6 summarizes the findings of the LOS analysis and Appendix C contains the
                   full Synchro/HCS reports of the analyses.

                   As reported in Table 6, the addition of site trips and traffic diversion will lead to
                   traffic delay and queue increases at all study area intersections. The signalized NC
                   55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road is projected to degrade from LOS E to LOS F in
                   the PM peak hour, while the signalized NC 55 and Indian Wells Road intersection is
                   projected to degrade from LOS E to LOS F in the PM peak hour, while continuing to
                   operate at LOS E in the AM peak hour. The signalized NC 55 and Morrisville
                   Parkway intersection is projected to continue operating at LOS E in the AM peak
                   hour.

                   One unsignalized intersection is projected to have stop-controlled approaches
                   operating at LOS E or worse. The northbound stop-controlled Access #1 approach
                   along Carpenter Fire Station Road is projected to operate at LOS E in the AM peak
                   hour and LOS F in the PM peak hour.

                             




                                                30
Table 6:  Build (2019) LOS Results 
                                                                             Build (2 0 1 9)


                                 Interse ction and Approach             AM                 PM

                                                                          C                 F
                         NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road
                                                                   (30.4 sec/veh)         (106.8
                         Eastbound                                        E                 F
                         Westbound                                      N/A               N/A
                         Northbound                                      C                     D
                         Southbound                                       C              F
                         NC 55 and Morrisville Carpenter                  E              F
                         Road/Indian Wells Road                    (74.3 sec/veh) (96.1 sec/veh)
                         Eastbound                                        D              D
                         Westbound                                       F                     F
                         Northbound                                      F                     D
                         Southbound                                       D              F
                         Morrisville Carpenter Road and Louis             B              B
                         Stephens Road                             (12.9 sec/veh) (16.8 sec/veh)
                         Southbound                                       A              B
                         Westbound                                       B                     B
                         Northbound                                      C                     B
                         Southbound                                       A              B
                                                                          C              D
                         NC 55 and McCrimmon Parkway
                                                                   (25.7 sec/veh) (36.4 sec/veh)
                         Eastbound                                        E              F
                         Westbound                                      N/A               N/A
                         Northbound                                      B                     B
                         Southbound                                       B              D
                                                                          E              D
                         NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway
                                                                   (75.3 sec/veh) (37.1 sec/veh)
                         Eastbound                                        F              E
                         Westbound                                       F                     E
                         Northbound                                      E                     D
                         Southbound                                       C              C
                         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Cary Glen        B              B
                         Boulevard                                 (12.4 sec/veh) (13.0 sec/veh)
                         Eastbound                                        B              B
                         Westbound                                       B                     B
                         Northbound                                      B                     B
                         Southbound                                      B                     B
                         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Howard
                                                                       N/A                N/A
                         Road/Access #1
                         Northbound                                      E                     F
                         Southbound                                      B                     A
                         Carpenter Fire Station Road and Fire
                                                                       N/A                N/A
                         Station/Access #2
                         Northbound                                      C                     B
                         Southbound                                      A                     A

                         Indian Wells Road and Access #3               N/A                N/A

                         Southbound                                      A                     A
                               LEGEND: X = Overall signalized intersection LOS;
              (XX sec) = Overall signalized intersection control delay in seconds; X = approach LOS




                                                 31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NC 55




                                                                                                                                                                                                          (339) (2448)

                                                                                                                                                                                                           234    939

                                                                                                                                                                                McCrimmon
                                                                                                                                                                                 Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (166)    461

                                                                                                                                                                                                  (133)    322           230    2513

                                                 Cary Glen                                              Howard                                        Fire  Station                                                      (195) (1175)
                                                 Boulevard                                               Road                                          Driveway
                                                                                 -19                                              0                                                         -26            (45)                  99

                                                                                -(118)                                            (0)                                                   (41)               -78                  (143)

                                                                                          (0)    (0)   (0)                               (0)    (0)    (0)

                                (48)      (14)   (32)          17       (44)              1       0     0            0     (0)           0       0     0                                          (201) (2425)    (0)             0      (0)

                                 39       12     41            259      (445)                                       323   (698)                                        0      (0)                  97     1086     0              0      (0)

 Carpenter Fire Station                                        67       (171)                                       65    (82)                                        388    (780)                                                0      (0)
        Road
                                (108)     84                                              (0)     0                                      (0)     0                                                (131)    253
                                                                                                                                                              "
                                                                                                                                                              $
                                                                                                                                                              !
                                (478)     579           58     24       127              (598)   760                                    (606)   758                                                (0)      0            317    2391     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Carpenter Fire Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pavement  to be removed at  the 
                                (30)      16            (35)   (14)     (74)             (60)    47          38      0     19           (28)    21             18                                 (426)    429           (538) (1096)    (0)                           CSX crossing  and guardrails  are 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to be installed  so that  no traffic 
                                                                                 60                          (80)   (0)   (36)    0                           (38)                          -94                                                                        can traverse  Carpenter Fire 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Station  Road at  this location.
                                                                                (74)                                              (0)                                                   -(87)
                                                                                                 Access #1                                      Access #2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Carpenter Fire Station
                                                 Cary Glen                                                          Proposed Development                                                                  -(25)                   7                      Road
                                                 Boulevard
                                                                                                                     YMCA - 50,300 square feet                                                             -12                  -(28)

                                                                                                                     Office - 11,900 square feet

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Road

                                                                                                                                                               Access #3

                                                                                                                                                (2)   (112)                                 0

                                                                                                                                                 1     52                                   (0)    (8)    (2373) (445)           260    (299)                                   (272)       (200)       (70)          24     (46)

                                                                                                                                                                       94    (124)                 3      1142    358            42     (56)                  -160    -(82)      188          33          19          321    (345)

                                                                     Indian Wells                                                                                      12    (23)                                                94     (236)                                                                         24     (82)    MorrisvilleCarpenter
                                                                         Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Road
                                                                                                                                         (3)     2                                                 (3)      6                                                                   (128)        213

                                                                                                                                         (8)    12                                          0     (51)     25             61    2435    210                   -(47)   -49       (373)        312               47     83      36

                                                                                                                                                                                            (0)   (66)     33            (83)   (1360) (114)                                     (62)         19               (56)   (40)   (50)

                                                                                                                                                                                                           (4)                    8

                                                                                                                                                                                                            9                   -(33)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Louis Stephens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (233) (1958) (488)             373    (416)
                                  LEGEND                                                                                                                                                           83      873    322            14     (40)

      Turning Movement                                                                                                                                                Morrisville                                                116    (236)                          Morrisville
                                                                                                                                                                       Parkway
      Existing Roadway                                                                                                                                                                            (195)    189                                                         Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                      Extension
      Future Roadway                                                                                                                                                                              (33)     32               0     7     2136    209

      Existing Signalized Intersection                                                                                                                                                            (13)     21             (2)    (23)   (979)   (234)

      Future Signal Installed by Others

      Existing Stop Controlled Approach

$ Future Stop Controlled Approach
"
!                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NC 55
 XX   AM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volume

(XX) PM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volume


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Crosspointe Church YMCA and
                                                                                                                          Figure 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Office (14-TAR-385)
                                                                                                Build (2019) AM and PM Peak Hour Turning Movement Volumes                                                                                                                                                       Town of Cary, NC
                                                                               5
                     Findings and Conclusions


As indicated in the traffic operations analyses, the proposed rezoning is projected to
have a moderate impact on the traffic operations of the surrounding roadway
network and intersections. Therefore, the following roadway improvements are
recommended in order to comply with the Town of Cary's transportation adequacy
requirements:

Frontage Widening
The Town of Cary requires that new developments widen the roads along the
frontage of their property to the standards specified in the Cary Comprehensive
Transportation Plan. The proposed development has frontage along Carpenter Fire
Station Road and Indian Wells Road. The developer will be required to construct
half of the ultimate cross-section for the portion of Carpenter Fire Station Road that
fronts the development.        As shown in the Town of Cary Comprehensive
Transportation Plan Update ­ Roadway Widths (amended December 16, 2010), this
section of Carpenter Fire Station Road is to be a 78-foot, four-lane cross-section (100-
foot right-of-way), including wide outside travel lanes along curbs and sidewalks on
both sides. Additionally, the parcel frontage along Indian Wells Road would be
required to be widened to its ultimate cross-section, a 35-foot, two-lane cross-section
(60-foot right-of-way) with bicycle lanes along cub and sidewalks on both sides.
Thus, the following is required along Carpenter Fire Station Road and Indian Wells
Road, along the frontage of the site:
     Widen Carpenter Fire Station Road along the entire frontage of the proposed
         development to half (1/2) of the ultimate cross-section as defined in the
         Town's Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
     Widen Indian Wells Road along the entire frontage of the parcel
         development to half (1/2) of the ultimate cross-section as defined in the
         Town's Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
                                    




                              33
Ultimate Crosssection for Carpenter Fire Station Road 




    Ultimate Crosssection for Indian Wells Road




                       34
NC 55 and Carpenter Fire Station Road (signalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that this intersection is projected to operate at LOS F in
the PM peak hour. In conjunction with the closure of Carpenter Fire Station Road
east of NC 55, additional demand is projected to be put on two critical movements
along NC 55 ­ the northbound left-turn at Carpenter Fire Station Road and the
southbound left-turn at Morrisville Carpenter Road. With the traffic diversion from
Carpenter Fire Station Road to Morrisville Carpenter Road, these left turns are
projected to exceed 500 vehicles per hour in at least one future peak hour. With the
construction of Parkside Town Commons, one additional geometric improvement is
recommended to mitigate the intersection:
      Construct an additional eastbound right-turn lane along Carpenter Fire
         Station that provides at least 150 feet of full storage with an appropriate
         taper. *Note that the Town of Cary has received a payment in lieu for this
         mitigation previously.*
      Develop a signal modification plan in coordination with the Town and
         NCDOT, including revised signal phasing and timings plans, to
         accommodate the new lane geometrics.

The long-term plan for Carpenter Fire Station Road is to be realigned east of NC 55
with Morrisville Carpenter Road being closed to thru traffic east of NC 55.

NC 55 and Indian Wells Road/Morrisville Carpenter Road (signalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that this intersection is projected to operate at LOS E in
the AM peak hour and LOS F in the PM peak hour. Therefore, the following
improvements are recommended at this location to meet the Town of Cary's
transportation adequacy requirements:
     Construct an exclusive eastbound right-turn lane along Indian Wells Road
        that provides at least 125 feet of full storage and an appropriate taper.
     Construct an additional westbound right-turn lane along Morrisville
        Carpenter Road that provides at least 250 feet of full storage and an
        appropriate taper.
     Restripe the southbound exclusive right-turn lane along NC 55 to a shared
        thru/right-turn lane and extend it so that it provides at least 200 feet of full
        storage with an appropriate taper.
     Construct an additional southbound receiving lane along NC 55 that extends
        approximately 1,200 feet south of the NC 55 and Indian Wells
        Road/Morrisville Carpenter Road intersection.
     Develop a signal modification plan in coordination with the Town and
        NCDOT, including revised signal phasing and timings plans, to
        accommodate the new lane geometrics.

As mentioned previously, the closure of Carpenter Fire Station Road east of NC 55 is
projected to result additional strain on the southbound left-turn along NC 55 at
Morrisville Carpenter Road. The plans associated with the Parkside Town Commons
development calls for the southbound left-turn lane to be extended to approximately
550 feet to accommodate the high vehicular demand projected at this location in the




                              35
future. In addition, an exclusive westbound right-turn lane along Morrisville
Carpenter Road is called out in the Parkside Town Commons plans. Another
southbound left-turn lane would be an ideal mitigation at this location; however
there would be issues widening over the railroad traffic along Morrisville Carpenter
Road, east of NC 55.

NC 55 and Morrisville Parkway (signalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that this intersection is projected to operate at LOS E
during the AM peak hour.             Therefore, the following improvements are
recommended at this location to meet the Town of Cary's transportation adequacy
requirements:
     Construct an additional southbound left-turn lane along NC 55, forming
        dual left-turn lanes, so that the two left-turn lanes have an average storage
        length of 300 feet with appropriate tapers.
     Develop a signal modification plan in coordination with the Town and
        NCDOT, including revised signal phasing and timings plans, to
        accommodate the new lane geometrics.

**These improvements are consistent with mitigations recommended in the Carpenter ACCP
TAR (13-TAR-372) and have been offered by Carpenter ACCP; however the zoning has not
been approved yet**

Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #1/Howard Road (unsignalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that the stop-controlled northbound Access #1 approach
along Carpenter Fire Station Road is projected to operate at LOS E in the AM peak
hour and LOS F in the PM peak hour. Therefore, the following driveway
configuration is recommended at this location:
     Construct Access #1 to provide for one ingress lane and two egress lanes,
        consisting of a shared thru/left-turn lane and a right-turn lane that provides
        at least 150 feet of full storage with an appropriate taper.

Carpenter Fire Station Road and Access #2 (unsignalized, right-in/right-out)
The traffic analysis indicates that the stop-controlled northbound Access #2 approach
along Carpenter Fire Station Road is projected to operate acceptably during both
peak hours. Therefore, the following driveway configuration is recommended at this
location:
     Construct the northbound Access #2 approach to provide one ingress lane
        (right-in) and one egress lane (right-out).
     Utilize the CTP widening to form an exclusive eastbound right-turn lane
        along Carpenter Fire Station Road that provides at least 100 feet of full
        storage and an appropriate taper.

Indian Wells Road and Access #3 (unsignalized)
The traffic analysis indicates that the stop-controlled southbound Access #3
approach along Indian Wells Road is projected to operate acceptably during both




                             36
                                              VHB Engineering NC, P.C.
                                                     4000 WestChase Boulevard, Suite 530
                                                             Raleigh, NC 27607
                                                              p: 919-829-0328 f: 919-829-0329

                                                                                                                    File Name     : CarpenterFire@CaryGlen
                                                                                                                    Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 2/5/2014
                                                                                                                    Page No       :1
                                                                Groups Printed- All Vehicles
                                              Carpenter Fire Station                                Carpenter Fire Station
                   Cary Glen Boulevard                                    Cary Glen Boulevard
                                                     Road                                                  Road
                       Southbound                                             Northbound
                                                   Westbound                                             Eastbound
   Start Time     Left   Thru Right    Trks   Left Thru Right Trks       Left Thru Right Trks       Left Thru Right Trks         Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
     07:00 AM      10       2    12       0     6    34      11      0      0     12      8   0      18    63       1      0               0          177           177
     07:15 AM      14       5     9       0     8    35       3      0      1     12     18   0      18    78       0      0               0          201           201
     07:30 AM      14       2    14       0    11    57       1      1      0      6     21   0      15    76       2      0               1          219           220
     07:45 AM       5       1    11       0    16    59       1      0      1      4     32   0      19    85       0      0               0          234           234
          Total    43      10    46       0    41   185      16      1      2     34     79   0      70   302       3      0               1          831           832

      08:00 AM      7       1     9      0     10      64    3      0      0      2      14     0    19     121     2     0                0          252           252
      08:15 AM      8       3    10      0     11      51    3      0      3      3      24     0    24     147     0     1                1          287           288
      08:30 AM      8       1     8      0      7      46    2      0      3      3      22     0    21      91     2     0                0          214           214
      08:45 AM      4       1     7      0      9      49    5      0      2      2      15     0    16     132     1     0                0          243           243
          Total    27       6    34      0     37     210   13      0      8     10      75     0    80     491     5     1                1          996           997

*** BREAK ***

      04:00 PM      2       3     4      0     13      62    3      0      0      2       3     0     9      70     1     0                0          172           172
      04:15 PM      6       3     8      0     12      63    8      0      1      0      12     0    15      67     0     0                0          195           195
      04:30 PM      3       5     6      0     15      55    4      0      2      3      13     0    20      59     1     0                0          186           186
      04:45 PM      2       1     3      0     18      73    5      0      0      2       5     0    16      64     1     1                1          190           191
          Total    13      12    21      0     58     253   20      0      3      7      33     0    60     260     3     1                1          743           744

      05:00 PM      1       0     8      0     13      81    4      0      0      1      11     0    21      84     0     1                1         224            225
      05:15 PM      3       2    15      0     11     104    3      0      0      2       5     0    23      95     2     0                0         265            265
      05:30 PM      5       3    13      0     30      64   11      1      1      0       9     0    22      96     0     0                1         254            255
      05:45 PM      6       0     8      0     24      81    9      0      2      2      13     0    38      86     0     1                1         269            270
          Total    15       5    44      0     78     330   27      1      3      5      38     0   104     361     2     2                3        1012           1015

    Grand Total    98     33    145      0    214    978    76      2     16     56    225      0   314    1414    13     4                6        3582           3588
      Apprch %    35.5    12    52.5          16.9   77.1     6           5.4   18.9   75.8          18     81.2   0.7
        Total %    2.7    0.9      4             6   27.3   2.1           0.4    1.6    6.3          8.8    39.5   0.4                  0.2          99.8
                                               VHB Engineering NC, P.C.
                                                      4000 WestChase Boulevard, Suite 530
                                                              Raleigh, NC 27607
                                                                p: 919-829-0328 f: 919-829-0329

                                                                                                             File Name    : CarpenterFire@CrosspointeChurch
                                                                                                             Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                             Start Date   : 2/5/2014
                                                                                                             Page No      :1
                                                                 Groups Printed- All Traffic
                                               Carpenter Fire Station                                 Carpenter Fire Station
                         Howard Road                                      Crosspointe Church
                                                      Road                                                   Road
                         Southbound                                           Northbound
                                                    Westbound                                              Eastbound
   Start Time     Left    Thru Right    Trks   Left Thru Right Trks      Left Thru Right Trks         Left Thru Right Trks        Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
     07:00 AM       0        0     0       0     0    45       0      2    0       0       0 0          0   128       0      8            10           173           183
     07:15 AM       0        0     0       0     0    61       0      6    0       0       0 0          0   111       0      6            12           172           184
     07:30 AM       1        0     0       0     0    96       0     10    0       0       0 0          1   134       0      3            13           232           245
     07:45 AM       0        0     1       1     0    74       0      3    0       0       0 0          0   161       0     10            14           236           250
          Total     1        0     1       1     0   276       0     21    0       0       0 0          1   534       0     27            49           813           862

      08:00 AM      0        0     1      0      2      67     0      4      0      0      0      0     0    160      0       4            8           230           238
      08:15 AM      0        0     0      0      0      76     0      4      0      0      0      0     0    176      0       2            6           252           258
      08:30 AM      0        0     0      0      0      55     0      1      0      0      0      0     0    174      0       1            2           229           231
      08:45 AM      0        0     0      0      1      86     0      1      0      0      0      0     0    157      0       5            6           244           250
          Total     0        0     1      0      3     284     0     10      0      0      0      0     0    667      0      12           22           955           977

*** BREAK ***

      04:00 PM      0        0     0      0      0     124     0      0      2      0      2      0     0    104      2       4            4           234           238
      04:15 PM      0        0     0      0      0     112     0      3      0      0      0      0     0    102      0       5            8           214           222
      04:30 PM      0        0     0      0      1     118     0      1      0      0      1      0     0     92      0       2            3           212           215
      04:45 PM      0        0     0      0      0     138     1      1      0      0      0      0     0     86      0       1            2           225           227
          Total     0        0     0      0      1     492     1      5      2      0      3      0     0    384      2      12           17           885           902

      05:00 PM      0        0     0      0      1     155     0      0      0      0      1      0     0    137      0       3             3         294            297
      05:15 PM      0        0     0      0      0     152     0      0      0      0      0      0     0    113      0       0             0         265            265
      05:30 PM      0        0     0      0      0     145     0      2      0      0      0      0     0    128      0       0             2         273            275
      05:45 PM      0        0     0      0      2     165     0      0      0      0      1      0     0    121      0       1             1         289            290
          Total     0        0     0      0      3     617     0      2      0      0      2      0     0    499      0       4             6        1121           1127

    Grand Total      1       0      2     1       7   1669      1    38       2     0       5     0     1   2084      2      55           94         3774           3868
      Apprch %    33.3       0   66.7           0.4   99.5    0.1          28.6     0    71.4           0    99.9   0.1
        Total %      0       0    0.1           0.2    44.2     0           0.1     0     0.1           0    55.2   0.1                  2.4          97.6
                                                      VHB Engineering NC, P.C.
                                                              4000 WestChase Boulevard, Suite 530
                                                                      Raleigh, NC 27607
                                                                          p: 919-829-0328 f: 919-829-0329

                                                                                                                            File Name    : MorrisvilleCarpenter@LouisStephens
                                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                            Start Date   : 2/5/2014
                                                                                                                            Page No      :1
                                                          Groups Printed- Passenger Vehicles - Single Unit - TTST
                                                       Morrisville Carpenter                                  Morrisville Carpenter
                        Louis Stephens Drive                                     Louis Stephens Drive
                                                               Road                                                   Road
                            Southbound                                               Northbound
                                                           Westbound                                               Eastbound
    Start Time          Left    Thru Right     Trks   Left Thru Right Trks      Left Thru Right Trks         Left Thru Right Trks                    Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM            4        7    31        0     9     70       4     0     3    11       7     2       34    51       2      5                        7          233            240
      07:15 AM            5        5    44        3     4     54       5     4     8    29       8     1       63    65       4      5                       13          294            307
      07:30 AM            4       13    41        7     6     58       5     2    14    15      15     2       48    76       3      1                       12          298            310
      07:45 AM            6        8    37        1     5     48      10     2     8    28       6     2       50    47       2      2                        7          255            262
           Total         19       33   153       11    24    230      24     8    33    83      36     7      195   239      11     13                       39         1080           1119

        08:00 AM           4      16     16      1       8      44       9      4       2      12       4      1     56        49         4     6            12          224            236
        08:15 AM           4       2     17      4       5      35       9      4      11      18      11      2     32        71         5     4            14          220            234
        08:30 AM           3      16     20      4      14      55      15      5       8      13       9      1     47        74         3     0            10          277            287
        08:45 AM          10      64     35      6      21      52       8      6       9      17       6      3     51        62         6     1            16          341            357
            Total         21      98     88     15      48     186      41     19      30      60      30      7    186       256        18    11            52         1062           1114

*** BREAK ***

        04:00 PM           9      13    35       4      11      63       6      0       8      32      15      2      26       45         4     5            11          267            278
        04:15 PM           7      36    48       2      12      70      10      2       9      14       7      2      33       47         8     1             7          301            308
        04:30 PM          13      22    41       4      19      59       8      1       4      12      15      0      14       65         9     0             5          281            286
        04:45 PM          22      39    62       1      19      55       7      0       7      15      14      0      18       63        11     4             5          332            337
            Total         51     110   186      11      61     247      31      3      28      73      51      4      91      220        32    10            28         1181           1209

        05:00 PM          17      43    61       3      22      68      12      0      14       5      11      0     30        73         6     0              3         362            365
        05:15 PM          12      51    76       0      18      71      13      0      11       7      15      0     25        86         8     3              3         393            396
        05:30 PM          19      67    48       0      23      63      14      0       6      13      10      1     31        72        21     0              1         387            388
        05:45 PM          24      42    49       0      20      65       4      0      10       4       6      0     29        49        11     1              1         313            314
            Total         72     203   234       3      83     267      43      0      41      29      42      1    115       280        46     4              8        1455           1463

     Grand Total        163     444    661      40    216      930    139      30    132     245     159      19    587      995     107       38          127          4778           4905
       Apprch %         12.9     35    52.1           16.8    72.4    10.8           24.6    45.7    29.7           34.8     58.9     6.3
         Total %         3.4     9.3   13.8            4.5    19.5     2.9            2.8     5.1     3.3           12.3     20.8     2.2                   2.6          97.4
 Passenger Vehicles      156    426     646            208     913     134            123     239     155            576      976      99                     0             0          4651
 % Passenger Vehicles   95.7    95.9   97.7       0   96.3    98.2    96.4      0    93.2    97.6    97.5      0    98.1     98.1    92.5       0             0             0           94.8
     Single Unit            6     18     14               7     13        5              8       6       3            11       17       7                     0             0           230
   % Single Unit          3.7    4.1     2.1     95     3.2     1.4     3.6   83.3     6.1     2.4     1.9   89.5     1.9      1.7    6.5     92.1            0             0            4.7
          TTST              1      0       1              1       4       0              1       0       1              0        2      1                     0             0            24
        % TTST            0.6      0     0.2      5     0.5     0.4       0   16.7     0.8       0     0.6   10.5       0      0.2    0.9      7.9            0             0            0.5
                                                      Martin/Alexiou/Bryson, P.C.
                                                      4000 WestChase Boulevard, Suite 530
                                                         Raleigh, North Carolina 27607
                                                        p: 919.829.0328 f: 919.829.0329
                                                                                                               File Name    : NC55@CarpenterFireStation
                                                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                               Start Date   : 2/12/2013
                                                                                                               Page No      :1
                                                                Groups Printed- All Traffic
                                              Carpenter Fire Station                                 Carpenter Fire Station
                          NC 55                                                 NC 55
                                                     Road                                                   Road
                        Southbound                                           Northbound
                                                   Westbound                                              Eastbound
  Start Time    Left    Thru   Right   Trks   Left Thru Right Trks      Left Thru Right       Trks   Left Thru Right Trks        Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
   07:00 AM      21      161     15      8      0    22     65      2    15    390       1      4     44    38     53      5           19           825            844
   07:15 AM      29      171      8      5      0    15       6     0    47    428       1     11     54    34     44      6           22           837            859
   07:30 AM      29      185     10     11      0    40       5     7    38    447       1     12     52    43     56      3           33           906            939
   07:45 AM      11      146     13     13      0    55       2     7    35    405       1      9     49    51     55      5           34           823            857
        Total    90      663     46     37      0   132     78     16   135 1670         4     36    199   166    208     19          108          3391           3499

   08:00 AM      14      163     10      9      0    36      3      4     47    370      5      8     38     59     65      10         31           810            841
   08:15 AM      19      139     16      4      3    29      5      6     33    416      1     16     52     69     55       8         34           837            871
   08:30 AM      28      136     17     12      0    22      7      2     28    434      1     20     29     53     49       1         35           804            839
   08:45 AM      16      163      6     12      0    32      5      2     35    428      0     15     36     46     79       5         34           846            880
       Total     77      601     49     37      3   119     20     14    143   1648      7     59    155    227    248      24        134          3297           3431

***Scheduled Break***

   04:00 PM      11      222     21      4      0    44      5      2     44    118      6      2     18     28     43       1           9          560            569
   04:15 PM      21      293     18     12      1    39      4      2     57    128      1      6     13     15     42       2          22          632            654
   04:30 PM      19      315     26     12      0    54      0      0     43    122      1      6     18     25     40       5          23          663            686
   04:45 PM      18      386     19      6      0    57      2      0     49    117      0      4     24     26     49       4          14          747            761
       Total     69     1216     84     34      1   194     11      4    193    485      8     18     73     94    174      12          68         2602           2670

   05:00 PM      28      407     25      4      0    41      3      0     38    157      1      4     12     27     48       5          13          787            800
   05:15 PM      36      464     26      2      0    65      4      4     66    160      0      5     12     55     51       5          16          939            955
   05:30 PM      18      495     39      4      0    49      1      0     66    123      1      5     24     33     62       3          12          911            923
   05:45 PM      28      450     30      1      0    74      2      0     60    152      1      2     11     28     51       1           4          887            891
       Total    110     1816    120     11      0   229     10      4    230    592      3     16     59    143    212      14          45         3524           3569

 Grand Total    346     4296    299    119      4    674    119    38    701   4395     22    129     486    630   842      69        355        12814          13169
  Apprch %        7     86.9    6.1           0.5   84.6   14.9         13.7   85.9    0.4           24.8   32.2    43
    Total %     2.7     33.5    2.3             0    5.3    0.9          5.5   34.3    0.2            3.8    4.9   6.6                 2.7          97.3
                                              VHB Engineering NC, P.C.
                                                   4000 WestChase Boulevard, Suite 530
                                                           Raleigh, NC 27607
                                                              p: 919-829-0328 f: 919-829-0329

                                                                                                                       File Name    : NC55@McCrimmon
                                                                                                                       Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 2/4/2014
                                                                                                                       Page No      :1
                                                                Groups Printed- All Traffic
                               NC 55                      No Approach                         NC 55              McCrimmon Parkway
                            Southbound                     Westbound                      Northbound                 Eastbound
      Start Time     Left    Thru Right     Trks   Left    Thru Right    Trks     Left     Thru Right   Trks   Left  Thru Right   Trks        Int. Total
        07:00 AM       0      109     78       3     0        0      0       0     117       340    0      2     49     0     43     0             741
        07:15 AM       0      156     79       0     0        0      0       0       76      506    0      3     95     0     68     1             984
        07:30 AM       0      172      5       3     0        0      0       0       12      538    0      5    125     0     94     0             954
        07:45 AM       0      174     13       5     0        0      0       0        8      549    0      6    125     0     42     0             922
             Total     0      611    175      11     0        0      0       0     213      1933    0     16    394     0    247     1            3601

        08:00 AM       0      150      3       3     0        0       0      0        9     541     0      9    143      0      29       0         887
        08:15 AM       0      137      6       4     0        0       0      0        7     517     0      7    171      0      39       1         889
        08:30 AM       0      124      7       6     0        0       0      0       11     554     0      7     99      0      34       0         842
        08:45 AM       0      170      6      13     0        0       0      0       12     510     0     10    113      0      35       0         869
            Total      0      581     22      26     0        0       0      0       39    2122     0     33    526      0     137       1        3487

*** BREAK ***

        04:00 PM       0      305     26       6     0        0       0      0       27     155     0      4     31      0      33       0         587
        04:15 PM       0      344     33       7     0        0       0      0       34     149     0      1     15      0      30       1         614
        04:30 PM       0      348     32      11     0        0       0      0       38     182     0      5     35      0      32       0         683
        04:45 PM       0      450     41       6     0        0       0      0       39     150     0      2     29      0      31       0         748
            Total      0     1447    132      30     0        0       0      0      138     636     0     12    110      0     126       1        2632

        05:00 PM       0      489     63       3     0        0       0      0       48     184     0      2     16      0      25       0         830
        05:15 PM       0      486     71       1     0        0       0      0       49     170     0      4     34      0      22       0         837
        05:30 PM       0      478     66       1     0        0       0      0       36     184     0      3     23      0      19       0         810
        05:45 PM       0      449     67       0     0        0       0      0       33     150     0      3     14      0      32       1         749
            Total      0     1902    267       5     0        0       0      0      166     688     0     12     87      0      98       1        3226

      Grand Total      0     4541    596      72     0        0       0      0      556    5379     0    73    1117      0     608        4      12946
        Apprch %       0      87.2   11.4    1.4     0        0       0      0       9.3    89.5    0    1.2    64.6     0     35.2     0.2
          Total %      0      35.1    4.6    0.6     0        0       0      0       4.3    41.5    0    0.6     8.6     0      4.7       0
                                                      VHB Engineering NC, P.C.
                                                              4000 WestChase Boulevard, Suite 530
                                                                      Raleigh, NC 27607
                                                                          p: 919-829-0328 f: 919-829-0329

                                                                                                                                 File Name    : NC55@MorrisvilleCarpenter
                                                                                                                                 Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date   : 2/4/2014
                                                                                                                                 Page No      :1
                                                          Groups Printed- Passenger Vehicles - Single Unit - TTST
                                                       Morrisville Carpenter
                                 US 55                                                  US 55                  Indian Wells Road
                                                               Road
                               Southbound                                            Northbound                    Eastbound
                                                           Westbound
    Start Time          Left   Thru Right      Trks   Left Thru Right Trks      Left Thru Right Trks         Left Thru Right Trks              Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
      07:00 AM            32    148     0         9    15       1     18     0    1    395      28      3      0      1      0   0                     12          639            651
      07:15 AM            37    205     1        12    15       0      4     1    0    378      49      8      1      0      0   0                     21          690            711
      07:30 AM            27    172     1         3    26       1      8     4    1    470      40      9      2      1      0   1                     17          749            766
      07:45 AM            20    198     0         2    22       0      5     2    3    476      50      6      1      0      0   0                     10          775            785
           Total         116    723     2        26    78       2     35     7    5 1719       167     26      4      2      0   1                     60         2853           2913

        08:00 AM         14      217      1     15      26       0       9      5      0     401     37       4      2      2      1      1            25          710            735
        08:15 AM         23      186      1      5      14       0       5      1      3     472     60       6      1      0      0      0            12          765            777
        08:30 AM         30      188      1      7      24       1       4      2      1     433     41      12      0      0      1      1            22          724            746
        08:45 AM         20      222      0     10      29       0       9      0      0     447     53      11      2      0      1      0            21          783            804
            Total        87      813      3     37      93       1      27      8      4    1753    191      33      5      2      3      2            80         2982           3062

*** BREAK ***

        04:00 PM         30      299      0     11     28        0       8      1      0     164     28       4      1      1      2      0            16          561            577
        04:15 PM         11      338      3     13     42        1       4      0      4     160     18       3      1      0      0      0            16          582            598
        04:30 PM         24      368      1     13     39        1       8      0      2     195     24       3      1      0      1      1            17          664            681
        04:45 PM         33      408      0      6     51        1       5      0      3     175     22       4      0      2      0      0            10          700            710
            Total        98     1413      4     43    160        3      25      1      9     694     92      14      3      3      3      1            59         2507           2566

        05:00 PM         41      413      2      4     45        1       7      0      3     201     22       3      0      1      1      0             7          737            744
        05:15 PM         46      501      1      5     44        1       4      0      0     212     23       0      1      1      0      0             5          834            839
        05:30 PM         33      414      1      3     73        1      14      1      4     193     28       4      1      1      1      0             8          764            772
        05:45 PM         46      442      3      0     54        0       8      0      5     201     27       3      1      0      0      0             3          787            790
            Total       166     1770      7     12    216        3      33      1     12     807    100      10      3      3      2      0            23         3122           3145

     Grand Total        467     4719     16    118    547         9   120      17     30    4973    550      83     15      10      8     4          222        11464          11686
       Apprch %            9     90.7    0.3          80.9      1.3   17.8            0.5    89.6    9.9           45.5   30.3   24.2
         Total %         4.1     41.2    0.1           4.8      0.1       1           0.3    43.4    4.8            0.1    0.1    0.1                 1.9          98.1
 Passenger Vehicles     455     4616      13           536        8    115             29   4903    538              13     10      6                   0             0        11242
 % Passenger Vehicles   97.4     97.8   81.2      0     98     88.9   95.8      0    96.7    98.6   97.8      0    86.7    100     75     0             0             0          96.2
     Single Unit          12       82      3              7       1       5             0      62     12              2      0      2                   0             0          376
   % Single Unit         2.6      1.7   18.8   82.2     1.3    11.1     4.2   76.5      0     1.2    2.2    89.2   13.3      0     25   100             0             0           3.2
          TTST             0       21      0              4       0       0             1       8      0              0      0      0                   0             0           68
        % TTST             0      0.4      0   17.8     0.7       0       0   23.5    3.3     0.2      0    10.8      0      0      0     0             0             0           0.6
