TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
REPORT 324

RBC Bank at
Harrison Pointe



Proposed Commercial
Development


N. HARRISON AVENUE AND
HARRISON POINTE DRIVE
                DRIVE


The Town of Cary, North Carolina




PREPARED FOR:

Town of Cary
Engineering Department

PREPARED BY:

HNTB North Carolina, PC
343 East Six Forks Road
Suite 200
Raleigh, NC 27609
NCBELS License #: C-1554



October 2011
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

A new RBC Bank is being proposed for construction in the Harrison Pointe Shopping
Center in Cary, NC. Figure 1 shows the general site location of the planned
development, which is located along the frontage of N. Harrison Avenue, just south of
Grande Heights Drive. The proposed project is to have vehicular access at two
driveways that connect to an existing east-west private driveway aisle within the
shopping center. The proposed development is planned to be fully complete by 2012.
This report analyzes the full build-out scenario for the year 2012, the No-Build scenario
for 2012, as well as 2010 existing year traffic conditions.

The proposed site is located on a single parcel, which is currently graded and
undeveloped, and currently featuring an internal driveway aisle and parking spaces for
Harrison Pointe Shopping Center patrons. Figure 2 shows the preliminary project site
plan, and the location of the proposed site access internal to the shopping center, as
well as existing connectivity to intersections along N. Harrison Avenue. This report
analyzes and presents the traffic impacts that the proposed RBC Bank site will have on
the following existing and proposed intersections in north/central Cary:

   ·   N.W. Maynard Road and Evans Road
   ·   N.W. Maynard Road and N. Harrison Avenue
   ·   N.E. Maynard Road and St. Charles Place (RIRO)
   ·   N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive
   ·   N.E. Maynard Road and Gregory Drive
   ·   N.E. Maynard Road and Reedy Creek Road (North)
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Reedy Creek Road
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Dynasty Drive
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Harrison Pointe Drive
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Harrison Pointe Shopping Center Driveway (RIRO)
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Chapel Hill Road

The impacts of the proposed site at these intersections will be evaluated during the AM
and PM peak hours of an average weekday. There are several Town of Cary-approved
developments in the study area that were studied for the potential to generate
additional background traffic by the 2012 design year. Field observation and
confirmation from Town of Cary Planning Department staff indicate that only one (the
nearby proposed Fifth Third Bank in the Harrison Pointe Shopping Center) of the
approved developments would likely add additional background traffic between 2010
and the 2012 design year.

Area-wide future ambient traffic growth was estimated to be 2.0 percent per year,
based on recent traffic studies completed near the proposed project study area and a
comparison of 2010 traffic count data to 2008 traffic count data compiled in the Town of

                                         ES-1
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

Cary TAR 311 study that was completed for a different proposed development on the
RBC Bank site parcel. The approved background and ambient traffic increases were
applied to 2012 no-build and build analysis scenarios.


II. EXISTING CONDITIONS

The proposed site is currently an undeveloped outparcel of the Harrison Pointe
Shopping Center. The study area consists of eleven existing intersections in the vicinity
of the proposed site parcel. Eight intersections are currently signalized along the major
Maynard Road and N. Harrison Avenue thoroughfares.             Most of the study area is
developed, with a mixture of residential subdivisions and commercial businesses along
the major roadways. Maynard Road (N.C 54), N. Harrison Avenue, Evans Road, and
Chapel Hill Road are heavily traveled arterials serving commercial and residential
development in the study area and within the Town of Cary. Reedy Creek Road is a
minor arterial that provides connectivity between N. Harrison Avenue, N.E. Maynard
Road and Chapel Hill Road. A number of smaller, collector and local street
intersections are also analyzed, as site-related traffic impacts may also occur on those
roadways and intersections.

There are no roadway improvement projects currently under construction or actively
planned before the 2012 build out year by the Town of Cary or the North Carolina
Department of Transportation in the study area. There are future plans by the Town to
widen Reedy Creek Road and Chapel Hill Road in the study area, but these projects
are assumed to occur beyond the 2012 design year timeframe.


III. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

The land upon which the site will be constructed is a currently undeveloped and is an
outparcel of the Harrison Pointe Shopping Center along N. Harrison Avenue. A
proposed preliminary site plan of the development can be found in Figure 2. The site
plan proposes to construct a new 3,475 square foot bank building with three drive-
through lanes and an ATM lane, along with 40 parking spaces. One new site driveway
connection to an existing internal driveway within the Harrison Pointe Shopping center
is proposed, along with the continued use of an existing driveway access aisle and
existing surface parking. This internal driveway connects with other internal shopping
center driveways to provide external access to N.E. Maynard Road and N. Harrison
Avenue. The site plan shows no additional improvements/changes to external
roadways.

Table ES-1, on the following page, shows the estimated trip generation data for the
development, based on methodologies found in the Institute of Transportation
Engineers Trip Generation Manual, Volume 8, 2008. Appropriate reductions in trip-
making due to "pass-by" type trips were made for the proposed land use type. To be


                                         ES-2
                                                 Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                             RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

conservative, no reductions for internally captured trips, pedestrian and bicycle trips, or
transit usage was made for this study.

                                      Table ES-1
                        Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                                  Proposed RBC Bank
                         ITE Land Use Code 912 ­ (Drive-In Bank)

  Independent        Time      Generation   % Traffic   % Traffic   TOTAL TRIPS         Total Trips
    Variable        Period       Rate          IN         OUT         IN       OUT      Generated
                     Daily        139.25      50%         50%        279       279         558
     4 Drive-
  Through Lanes    AM Peak         9.44       58%         42%         22        16          38
                   PM Peak        27.41       49%         51%       54 (25)   56 (26)    110 (51)
 (XX) ­ 47% Pass-by Trips PM Peak Only



IV. TRAFFIC OPERATIONS ANALYSIS

Existing intersections were analyzed during the AM and PM peak hours of study area
traffic patterns, using data collected by HNTB. Of the eleven existing study area
intersections analyzed, only one (N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive)
currently has deficient traffic operations. To verify the results for that intersection,
HNTB conducted a field delay study on July 13, 2010 to verify existing PM peak hour
vehicular delays and queues for the Town of Cary TAR 309a study. Results indicate
that actual field-observed delay for the southbound critical left-turn movement is over 40
percent less than estimated by the capacity analysis methodologies, and actually
operates at an acceptable Level-of-Service (LOS) C instead of a predicted LOS E.

The addition of ambient area-wide traffic growth by 2012 causes no other study
intersection operations to fall below a LOS D. The addition of site-related traffic in the
2012 design year will marginally increase delay at all study area intersections, but will
not cause any additional intersection deficiencies. A summary of the traffic operations
for each intersection, related to vehicular delays (intersection average as a whole if
signalized, critical movement if stop-controlled) and the corresponding LOS is shown in
Table ES-2 on the following page.




                                              ES-3
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                                RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


                             Table ES-2 LOS and Delay Summary
                            TAR 324 ­ RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe

                                            2010 Existing     2012 No-Site     2012 W/Site 2012 Mitigated
                                   Peak
Intersections
                                   Hour      LOS     Delay    LOS     Delay    LOS   Delay   LOS   Delay
N.W. Maynard Road and               AM        B       15.9      B      17.0     B    17.0    N/A    N/A
Evans Road                          PM        C       30.9      C      32.7     C    32.7    N/A    N/A

N.W. Maynard Road and               AM        C       33.2      C      34.0     C    34.1    N/A    N/A
N. Harrison Avenue                  PM        D       45.2      D      48.2     D    49.3    N/A    N/A

N.E. Maynard Road and               AM        A*     9.3*      A*      9.4*    A*    9.4*    N/A    N/A
St. Charles Place (RIRO)*           PM        B*     10.5*     B*      10.8*   B*    10.9*   N/A    N/A

                                    AM        C*     15.7*     C*      16.3*   C*    16.4*   N/A    N/A
N.E. Maynard Road and
Grande Heights Drive*                         E*     35.3*
                                    PM                         E*      40.5*   E*    42.2*   N/A    N/A
                                             <C>    <23.9>

N.E. Maynard Road and               AM        A       6.6       A       6.6     A     6.6    N/A    N/A
Gregory Drive                       PM        A       3.7       A       3.7     A     3.7    N/A    N/A

N.E. Maynard Road and Reedy         AM        B       10.3      B      10.5     B    10.5    N/A    N/A
Creek Road (North)                  PM        C       30.4      D      34.2     D    34.1    N/A    N/A

N. Harrison Avenue and Reedy        AM        C       31.2      C      34.7     C    34.7    N/A    N/A
Creek Road                          PM        A        6.4      A       6.9     A     6.9    N/A    N/A

N. Harrison Avenue and              AM        B       11.8      B      12.1     B    12.2    N/A    N/A
Dynasty Drive                       PM        B       17.0      B      18.1     B    18.2    N/A    N/A

N. Harrison Avenue and              AM        A       4.8       A      5.0      A    5.1     N/A    N/A
Harrison Pointe Drive               PM        A       8.9       A      10.9     B    11.6    N/A    N/A

N. Harrison Avenue and              AM        B*     12.0*     B*      12.2*   B*    12.4*   N/A    N/A
Harrison Pointe Shopping
Center Driveway (RIRO)*             PM        B*      9.8*     B*      10.0*   B*    10.2*   N/A    N/A

N. Harrison Avenue and              AM        C       30.2      C      30.6     C    31.2    N/A    N/A
Chapel Hill Road                    PM        C       35.3      D      38.6     D    38.8    N/A    N/A

* - LOS/Delay Data is for worst-case critical stop-controlled movement
<XX..X> - June 2010 Field Delay Study Results
N/A - Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made



V. MITIGATION RELATED TO THE PROJECT

In conclusion, of the eleven existing intersections, only one experiences deficient
operations predicted by HCS methodologies in the 2010 existing scenario analyzed for
this study ­ the intersection of N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive. In the
2012 design year No-Build Scenario, no other study area intersections are projected to
drop below Town of Cary LOS D thresholds for adequate traffic operations in the Base
Transportation Zone. The addition of site generated traffic from the proposed RBC


                                                     ES-4
                                              Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                          RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

Bank development will not cause any additional intersections to drop to a deficient LOS
in either peak hour in the 2012 design year Build Scenario.

To mitigate potential future LOS deficiencies to Town APFO standards, a two-phase
traffic signal), would be required at this location contingent on the intersection meeting a
full traffic signal warrant analysis, per MUTCD guidelines. However, it is not the intent of
the ordinance to require signals to be automatically installed at all non-signalized
intersections that operate at LOS E or F.

This improvement would only recommended pending a full signal warrant analysis for
this intersection, as the intersection was analyzed for the MUTCD Peak Hour Warrant
and did not meet the peak hour warrant thresholds in the AM peak hour. It did meet
peak hour warrants in the PM peak hour, but may not meet any other warrants,
particularly the more comprehensive Four-Hour Warrant thresholds. Figure 11A shows
the location of the potential operational deficiency.

The location of the intersection to the nearest major signalized intersection (Maynard
Road and N. Harrison Avenue) is slightly less than a desirable 1,200 feet spacing
frequently recommended for signal spacing along major arterial roadways. Results
from a field delay study conducted by HNTB in July 2010 indicate that actual observed
delays for southbound critical movement left-turning vehicles is about 40% less than
estimated from HCS methodologies, and would correspond to an acceptable LOS C,
compared to the estimated LOS E from the capacity analysis. Therefore, the
installation of a traffic signal was not analyzed in the study and is not recommended at
this time to mitigate traffic impacts from the RBC Bank site.

Another potential mitigation strategy to improve operations at the intersection would be
to limit left-turn access out of the Grande Heights Drive southbound approach.
However, this may cause operational problems due to increased u-turn movements at
the Maynard Road/N. Harrison Avenue intersection downstream. With multiple access
options for traffic within the Harrison Pointe Shopping Center, it is recommended to
continue to allow left-turn access for Grande Heights Drive at the N.E. Maynard Road
intersection and only consider signalization in the future if it meets additional MUTCD
signal warrants.




                                           ES-5
                                                                    Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                                     RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


                                                  Table of Contents

APPENDIX LIST/LIST OF FIGURES ............................................................................... ii

LIST OF TABLES ............................................................................................................. ii

I. Existing Conditions................................................................................................... 1

         A. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 1

         B. Project Description ........................................................................................... 1

         C. Geometrics and Traffic Control ........................................................................ 2

         D. Existing Volumes and Other Potential Impacts ................................................ 5

II. Probable Impacts of the Project ............................................................................. 6

III. Traffic Impacts .......................................................................................................... 7

         A. Trip Generation ................................................................................................ 7

         B. Background Traffic ........................................................................................... 7

         C. Trip Distribution and Assignment ..................................................................... 8


IV. Impact Analysis ........................................................................................................ 9

         A. Capacity Analysis Methodology ....................................................................... 9

         B. Capacity Analysis Results For Study Area Intersections ............................... 16

V. Summary and Recommendations ........................................................................ 18




                                                                i
                                                           Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                                RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

APPENDICES

A.   Figures
B.   Traffic Count Data
C.   SYNCHRO Signalized Analysis Output
D.   Highway Capacity Software Analysis Output
E.   Vehicle Delay Study Field Data
F.   Peak Hour Signal Warrant Analysis

List of Figures

Figure
   1)....... Site Location Map
   2)....... RBC Bank Preliminary Site Plan
   3)....... 2010 Existing Laneage
   3a)..... 2010 Existing Laneage (Inset)
   4)....... 2010 Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
   4a)..... 2010 Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes (Inset)
   5)....... 2012 Ambient Growth Traffic Volumes
   5a)..... 2012 Ambient Growth Traffic Volumes (Inset)
   6-1) ... 2012 Potential Background Traffic Generating Locations
   6-2) ... 2012 Total Background Traffic Volumes
   6a)..... 2012 Total Background Traffic Volumes (Inset)
   7)....... 2012 Traffic Volumes Without Site
   7a)..... 2012 Traffic Volumes Without Site (Inset)
   8)....... 2012 Site Traffic Distribution Percentages
   8a)..... 2012 Site Traffic Distribution Percentages (Inset)
   9)....... 2012 Site Traffic Assignment
   9a)..... 2012 Site Traffic Assignment ­ New Trips (Inset)
   9a-2) . 2012 Site Traffic Assignment ­ Pass-by Trips (Inset)
   9a-3) . 2012 Site Traffic Assignment ­ Total (Inset)
   10)..... 2012 Traffic Volumes With Site
   10a)... 2012 Traffic Volumes With Site Inset)
   11a)... Potential Operational Deficiencies (Inset)

List of Tables
Table                                                                                                 Page
  1)    Existing Study Area Roadways ..................................................................3
  2)    Traffic Count Information ...........................................................................5
  3)    Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary.............................................7
  4)    Level of Service (LOS) Characteristics ....................................................10
  5A)   Level of Service for Study Area Intersections.................................... 12-13
  5B)   Delay Results for Study Area Intersections ....................................... 14-15
  6)    Comparison of Field Measured Delay and HCS Calculated Delay .........16



                                                         ii
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


I. EXISTING CONDITIONS

A. Introduction

A new RBC Bank is being proposed for construction in the Harrison Pointe Shopping
Center in Cary, NC. Figure 1 shows the general site location of the planned
development, which is located along the frontage of N. Harrison Avenue, just south of
Grande Heights Drive. The proposed project is to have vehicular access at two
driveways that connect to an existing east-west private driveway aisle within the
shopping center. The proposed development is planned to be fully complete by 2012.
This report analyzes the full build-out scenario for the year 2012, the No-Build scenario
for 2012, as well as 2010 existing year traffic conditions.

The proposed site is located on a single parcel, which is currently graded and
undeveloped, and currently featuring an internal driveway aisle and parking spaces for
Harrison Pointe Shopping Center patrons.. Figure 2 shows the preliminary project site
plan, and the location of the proposed site access internal to the shopping center, as
well as existing connectivity to intersections along N. Harrison Avenue.

B. Project Description

This report analyzes and presents the traffic impacts that the proposed RBC Bank site
will have on the following existing intersections in north/central Cary:

   ·   N.W. Maynard Road and Evans Road
   ·   N.W. Maynard Road and N. Harrison Avenue
   ·   N.E. Maynard Road and St. Charles Place (RIRO)
   ·   N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive
   ·   N.E. Maynard Road and Gregory Drive
   ·   N.E. Maynard Road and Reedy Creek Road (North)
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Reedy Creek Road
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Dynasty Drive
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Harrison Pointe Drive
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Harrison Pointe Shopping Center Driveway (RIRO)
   ·   N. Harrison Avenue and Chapel Hill Road

The impacts of the proposed site at these intersections will be evaluated during the AM
and PM peak hours of an average weekday. The following analysis is based on
background traffic for the existing year, 2010, the design year of 2012, and the
estimated site-generated traffic produced by the RBC Bank development. There are
several Town of Cary-approved developments in the study area that were investigated
for potential additional background traffic generation. The list of developments that are
either currently under construction or planned to be partially or fully complete by the
2012 design year includes the following:



                                           1
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

·   Town of Cary TAR 166 - Northwoods Activity Center Concept Plan. This site is now
    known as Northwoods Crossing.
·   St. Charles Place (07-SP-013)
·   Town of Cary TAR 259 ­ Harrison Grande Apartments (Northwoods PUD)
·   Town of Cary TAR 295 ­ Chatham Village
·   Town of Cary TAR 208 ­ Maynard Village (also known as Maynard Station)
·   Harrison Pointe Shopping Center ­ any additional outparcel development
·   Town of Cary TAR 305 - Metropolitan Phases 1&2
·   Town of Cary TAR 309a ­ Fifth Third Bank

Additional background traffic from these developments was studied for inclusion, as
appropriate, for this analysis in the 2012 No-Build and Build scenarios. Area-wide future
ambient traffic growth was estimated to be 2.0 percent per year, based on recent traffic
studies completed near the proposed project study area and considering the traffic
impact of the background sites listed above.

C. Geometrics and Traffic Control

Existing Roadways

The TAR 324 project study area features several major arterial roadways serving areas
throughout the Town of Cary and points beyond, as well as a number of collector and
local access streets. Table 1, on the following page, summarizes pertinent information
on the study area roadway facilities.

Intersections

Currently, eight of the eleven existing study area intersections are signalized. Figures
3 and 3A show the existing laneage and traffic control for all existing intersections.

The intersection of N. Harrison Avenue and Reedy Creek Road has three-phase
signalized control. The northbound approach features an exclusive u-turn storage bay,
a through travel lane, and a shared through/right-turn lane. The southbound approach
has an exclusive left-turn lane (with protected-permitted phasing) and two through travel
lanes. The westbound Reedy Creek Road approach has separate left-turn and right-
turn lanes. Pedestrian crosswalks are present at the westbound and southbound
approaches, but no signal heads are in operation.




                                           2
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                                RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

                            Table 1 ­ Existing Study Area Roadways




                                                                                                        On-Street
                                                                                             Sidewalk


                                                                                                         Parking
                                                                                     Speed
                                                                             AADT


                                                                                     Limit
                                                                             2007
Road                               Functional               Study Area
Name                                 Class*                Cross-Section

Maynard Road (N.C. 54)          Major Arterial       4 lane divided +       19,000   45      Y            N
                                                     5 lane with TWLTL
N. Harrison Avenue              Major Arterial       4 lane undivided +     21,000   45      Y            N
                                                     4 lane divided +
                                                     5 lane with TWLTL
Chapel Hill Road                Major Arterial       2-3 lane undivided     11,000   45      S            N
Evans Road                      Major Arterial       5 lane with TWLTL      9,300    45      Y            N
Reedy Creek Road                Minor Arterial       2 lane undivided       6,400    35      N            N
Gregory Drive                   Collector/Local      2 lane undivided        N/A     25      S            Y
Dynasty Drive                   Collector            2 lane undivided        N/A     25      S            Y
St. Charles Place               Local
Harrison Pointe Drive           Local
* - As defined in the Town of Cary 2010 Comprehensive Transportation Plan
S ­ Some Sidewalk Present
TWLTL ­ Two-Way Left-turn Lane

The intersection of N. Harrison Avenue and Dynasty Drive is currently controlled by a
five-phase traffic signal. The northbound and southbound N. Harrison Avenue
approaches feature exclusive left-turn storage bays with protected-permitted signal
phasing. The eastbound Dynasty Drive approach has a left-turn lane and a shared
through/right-turn lane.     The westbound approach has a single, shared left-
turn/through/right-turn lane. Pedestrian crosswalks are present on all four approaches
with the north and southbound approaches featuring pedestrian signal heads.

The intersection of N. Harrison Avenue and Harrison Pointe Drive is currently controlled
by a three-phase traffic signal. The northbound approach consists of an exclusive u-
turn storage bay, two through travel lanes and an exclusive right-turn storage bay. The
southbound approach features an exclusive left-turn lane (with protected-permitted
signal phasing) and two through travel lanes. The westbound approach from the
Harrison Pointe Shopping Center features separate left and right-turn lanes.
Crosswalks and pedestrian signal heads are present at all approaches.

The intersection of N. Harrison Avenue and N.C. 54 (N.W. Maynard Road) is controlled
by an eight phase traffic signal. Eastbound and westbound left-turn approaches on
N.W. Maynard Road feature protected-only phasing. The eastbound approach
contains dual left-turn lanes, a through lane, and a shared through/right-turn lane. The
westbound approach has an exclusive left-turn lane, two through travel lanes and an
exclusive right-turn lane.      The northbound and southbound Harrison Avenue
approaches have exclusive left-turn lanes with protected-permitted turn phasing. In
addition, both approaches feature two through travel lanes and exclusive right-turn
lanes. All four approaches have painted crosswalks and pedestrian signal heads.


                                                       3
                                              Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                          RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


The intersection of N. Harrison Avenue and Chapel Hill Road features eight-phase
signalized control. The north and southbound Harrison Avenue approaches include an
exclusive left-turn bay, an exclusive through lane, and a shared through/right-turn lane.
The eastbound Chapel Hill Road approach includes exclusive left, through, and right-
turning lanes, and the westbound approach contains an exclusive left-turn bay and a
shared through/right-turn lane. No pedestrian signals or crosswalks are present.

The intersection of N.C. 54 (N.W. Maynard Road) and Evans Road features 5-phase
signalized traffic control. The northbound and southbound approaches on N.C. 54
(Maynard Road) have exclusive left-turn lanes with protected+permitted phasing. The
northbound approach also has a through travel lane and a shared through-right turn
lane. The southbound approach features two through travel lanes and an exclusive
right-turn lane onto Evans Road. The Evans Road approach features separate left,
through, and right-turn lanes. The Lowe's Driveway northbound approach has an
exclusive left-turn lane and a shared through/right-turn lane. Pedestrian crosswalks
and signal heads are present at all four approaches.

The intersection of N.C. 54 (N.E. Maynard Road) and Gregory Drive is currently
controlled by a two-phase traffic signal. Permitted left-turn phasing is in operation at all
approaches. N.E. Maynard Road eastbound and westbound approaches feature
continuous left-turn lanes in both directions, a through travel lane and a shared
through/right-turn lane. Northbound and southbound Gregory Drive approaches feature
exclusive left-turn bays and shared through/right-turn lanes. Pedestrian crosswalks are
currently present at the northbound and westbound approaches and the westbound
approach on Maynard Road has pedestrian signal heads.

The intersection of N.C. 54 (N.E. Maynard Road) and Reedy Creek Road/Shopping
Center Driveway is currently controlled by a two-phase traffic signal. Permitted left-turn
phasing is in operation at all approaches. The northbound N.E. Maynard Road
approach features an exclusive left-turn storage bay, a through travel lane, and a
shared through/right-turn lane. The southbound N.E. Maynard Road approach features
an exclusive left-turn lane, a through travel lane, and a shared through/right-turn lane.
The eastbound Shopping Center Driveway features a short left-turn bay and a shared
through/right-turn lane. The westbound Reedy Creek Road approach features an
exclusive left-turn lane, a through travel lane, and a flared right-turn approach.
Pedestrian crosswalk is present at the Shopping Center Driveway approach only. No
pedestrian signal heads are present at the intersection.

The remaining intersections are currently stop-controlled, with the lower volume street
approaches experiencing the stop-controlled condition (see Figures 3 and 3A for
details).




                                             4
                                               Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                           RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


D. Existing Traffic Volumes and Other Potential Impacts

Figures 4 and 4A show the existing AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes for the study
area intersections. The counts used to determine these volumes were conducted by
Mulkey Engineers for HNTB North Carolina, P.C. for the following intersections during
the respective times shown in Table 2. With the exception of the Harrison Pointe
Shopping Center RIRO Driveway along N. Harrison Avenue, all other turning movement
counts were conducted in June 2010 for the Town of Cary TAR 309a ­ Fifth Third Bank
study. Traffic count data files can be found in Appendix B of this report.

                            Table 2 - Traffic Count Information

                                                Period       Count
Traffic Count Location                                                   Peak Hour
                                               Counted       Date
                                                   AM Peak              7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
N.W. Maynard Road and Evans Road                             6/23/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:00 ­ 6:00 PM
                                                   AM Peak              8:15 ­ 9:15 AM
N.E. Maynard Road and N. Harrison Avenue                     6/29/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:15 ­ 6:15 PM
                                                   AM Peak              7:30 ­ 8:30 AM
N.E. Maynard Road and St. Charles Place                      6/29/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:00 ­ 6:00 PM
                                                   AM Peak              7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive                   6/30/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:00 ­ 6:00 PM
                                                   AM Peak              7:30 ­ 8:30 AM
N.E. Maynard Road and Gregory Drive                          6/24/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:00 ­ 6:00 PM
N.E. Maynard Road and Reedy Creek Road /           AM Peak              7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
                                                             6/23/10
Shopping Center Driveway                           PM Peak              5:15 ­ 6:15 PM
                                                   AM Peak              8:15­ 9:15 AM
N. Harrison Avenue and Reedy Creek Road                      6/24/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:15 ­ 6:15 PM
                                                   AM Peak              8;00 ­ 9:00 AM
N. Harrison Avenue and Dynasty Drive                         6/23/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:15 ­ 6:15 PM
                                                   AM Peak              8:00 ­ 9:00 AM
N. Harrison Avenue and Harrison Pointe Drive                 6/24/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:15 ­ 6:15 PM
N. Harrison Avenue and Harrison Pointe             AM Peak              7:30 ­ 8:30 AM
Shopping Center RIRO Driveway                      PM Peak   11/30/10   4:45 ­ 5:45 PM
                                                   AM Peak              7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
N. Harrison Avenue and Chapel Hill Road                      6/29/10
                                                   PM Peak              5:15 ­ 6:15 PM

Transit Impacts. Currently, Triangle Transit (TT) Route 301 operates through the
study area, with northbound and southbound routes immediately adjacent to the
proposed site. The route runs along N. Harrison Avenue, with several bus stops posted
near major intersections. Buses run on 30 minutes headways during weekday peak
hours. For the purposes of this study it was conservatively estimated that no site-
generated trip estimates would be reduced by a factor for TT transit service.

C-Tran provides fixed-route daily service to various areas within the Town of Cary.
Three C-Tran routes currently serve the immediate study area. Maynard Loop Routes
1 (eastbound) and 2 (westbound) provide AM and PM peak service on an hourly basis
and pass directly through the study area, with existing stops near the site at the


                                               5
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

intersection of Maynard Road and N. Harrison Avenue. The Harrison Avenue Route
provides peak hour service on a 30 minute headway in the AM and PM peak hours and
runs along N. Harrison Avenue, with stops along N. Harrison Avenue adjacent to the
site Though the three C-Tran routes provide legitimate transit service to the study area
and proposed RBC Bank site, this analysis conservatively estimates that they will have
no significant impact on travel behavior, and no specific vehicular reductions were
assumed.

Planned Roadway Improvement Impacts. There are no roadway improvement
projects in the study area actively planned to be complete before the 2012 build-out
year by the Town of Cary or the North Carolina Department of Transportation. The
Town of Cary has future plans to widen Reedy Creek Road between N. Harrison
Avenue and N.E. Maynard Road to either a three-lane section with continuous center-
turn lane or a four-lane divided cross-section. The Town is also considering widening
Chapel Hill Road between its extents inside the Maynard Road Loop. Both project s
have no defined schedule for completion and were not considered to be complete in the
2012 build-out year for this study.


II. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT

The land upon which the site will be constructed is currently an undeveloped, graded
outparcel of the Harrison Pointe Shopping Center. This parcel has a paved internal
driveway, with surface parking spaces, currently usable for patrons of the Harrison
Pointe Shopping Center. A preliminary site plan of the development can be found in
Figure 2.

The site plan proposes to keep the existing access driveway, and to add an additional
access driveway located along the existing two-lane shopping center internal circulation
roadway north of the site parcel. This internal roadway connects with N. Harrison
Avenue at a limited access right-turn in/right-turn out only intersection. The additional
driveway access will be a one-way exit-only driveway for traffic utilizing the drive-
through banking facilities. An existing curb cut for this site parcel that connects to a
driveway aisle that is an extension of St. Charles Place will not be utilized. No
additional improvements/changes to external roadways are shown on the site plan.

The proposed RBC Bank development consists of a 3,475 square foot banking building
with three drive-through windows and an ATM drive-through window. 40 total surface
parking spaces are shown on site plan.




                                           6
                                                 Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                             RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


III. TRAFFIC IMPACTS

A. Trip Generation

The projected trips generated by the proposed development were based on information
from the ITE Trip Generation Manual (Institute of Transportation Engineers, 8th Edition,
2008). The number of drive-through lanes (including the proposed ATM lane) was used
as the basis for estimating trips. Trip generation results use the ITE rate-based
methodology for number of drive through lanes to calculate the number of trips, per
recommendations from the NCDOT Congestion Management Unit.

Table 3, below, shows the estimated number of trips generated by the RBC Bank
development during the AM and PM peak hours of the adjacent streets on a typical
weekday. No attempt was made to reduce the number of estimated site trips by a
transit factor, due to the small amount of potential ridership in relation to total trips in the
study area and large TTA and C-Tran bus headways. Reductions in trip-making due to
pass-by type trips were made for this study in the PM peak hour analysis, using
methodologies found in the ITE Trip Generation Handbook and approved by the
NCDOT Congestion Management Unit. No reductions in generated trips were
considered for internal purposes. A truck percentage of two percent was used for all
site-generated traffic.

Table 3 shows that, when fully developed, the RBC Bank development will generate
approximately 558 daily trips, 38 new site trips in the AM peak hour and 59 new site
trips in the PM peak hour, with approximately 51 additional pass-by trips expected in
the PM peak hour.

                                        Table 3
                        Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                                  Proposed RBC Bank
                         ITE Land Use Code 912 ­ (Drive-In Bank)

   Independent       Time      Generation   % Traffic   % Traffic   TOTAL TRIPS         Total Trips
     Variable       Period       Rate          IN         OUT         IN       OUT      Generated
                     Daily        139.25      50%         50%        279       279         558
     4 Drive-
  Through Lanes    AM Peak         9.44       58%         42%         22        16          38

                   PM Peak        27.41       49%         51%       54 (25)   56 (26)    110 (51)
 (XX) ­ 47% Pass-by Trips PM Peak Only


B. Background Traffic

Background traffic growth in the project study is assumed to be from two sources ­
ambient area-wide traffic growth and from specific background traffic generators. Per
information from previous traffic impact studies and NCDOT Traffic Survey Unit data,


                                                7
                                           Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                        RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

an ambient growth rate of two percent per year was applied to 2010 existing peak hour
traffic volumes. Figures 5 and 5A display 2012 ambient growth estimates for study
area intersections.

Potential specific site-generated background traffic for the 2012 design year was
investigated for the following partially constructed or planned developments (per
information from the Town of Cary):

·   Town of Cary TAR 166 - Northwoods Activity Center Concept Plan. This site is now
    known as Northwoods Crossing.
·   St. Charles Place (07-SP-013)
·   Town of Cary TAR 259 ­ Harrison Grande Apartments (known as Northwoods PUD)
·   Town of Cary TAR 295 ­ Chatham Village
·   Town of Cary TAR 208 ­ Maynard Village (also known as Maynard Station)
·   Harrison Pointe Shopping Center ­ any additional outparcel development
·   Town of Cary TAR 305 - Metropolitan Phases 1&2
·   Town of Cary TAR 309a ­ Fifth Third Bank

The spatial location of these developments in relation to the proposed RBC Bank is
shown in Figure 6-1. Based on field observation and confirmation by the Town of Cary
Planning Department staff, none of the developments listed above are either currently
under construction and/or would be built-out to any significant degree by the 2012
design year, except for the Fifth Third Bank project, which could be constructed and
open by 2012. No additional outparcels of the Harrison Pointe Shopping Center are
expected to be built by 2012. The Northwoods Crossing development is essentially
built-out. Therefore, it was assumed that the only background traffic growth in the
project study area between 2010 and 2012 would result from the Fifth Third Bank,
which is shown in Figures 6-2 and 6A.

Total background traffic (ambient and specific background from study area
development) expected in the 2012 build-out year is shown in Figures 7 and 7A.

C. Trip Distribution and Assignment

Existing daily and peak hour traffic patterns were used to determine the directional
traffic characteristics of the additional background and site-generated traffic. Daily
traffic volume information was taken from recent Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT)
data from the NCDOT Traffic Survey Unit. Existing average peak hour data was also
used to determine traffic flow pattern characteristics and to base trip distribution
percentages on these patterns.

Site-related traffic was assumed to use the higher volume arterial study area roadways
(Maynard Road and N. Harrison Avenue) to enter/exit the study area. Some site-
related traffic could be generated by and use local access and collector streets within
the study area, but this amount of trips was considered negligible for the purposes of
this analysis. Traffic was assumed to access the site via the most direct, convenient


                                          8
                                            Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

path. This assumed avoiding making u-turn movements in areas with turning
movements into/out of the Harrison Pointe Shopping Center restricted by medians on
major roadways ­ though the possibility exists that some site traffic could make u-turn
maneuvers as part of their site-related trip.

Figures 8 and 8A show the trip distribution percentage breakout used for the 2012 site
traffic.   Figures 9 and 9A-1, 9A-2, and 9A-3 show the corresponding site traffic
volume assignments, based on the trip generation rates, for the 2012 final build-out
scenario. Site traffic assignment was broken out into two categories, new trips and
pass-by trips in the first two figures. Figure 9A-3 shows the net site traffic volume
effects of combining the two assignment categories.


IV. IMPACT ANALYSIS

A. Capacity Analysis Methodology

Evaluation of traffic operations on suburban arterials is most effective through the
determination of level of service (LOS) criteria. The concept of level of service
correlates qualitative aspects of traffic flow to quantitative terms. This enables
transportation professionals to take the qualitative issues, such as congestion and
substandard geometrics, and translate them into measurable quantities, such as
operating speeds and vehicular delays. The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM
2000) characterizes level of service by letter designations A through F. Level of service
A represents ideal low-volume traffic operations, and level of service F represents over-
saturated high-volume traffic operations. Level of service is measured differently for
various highway facilities, but in general, level of service letter designations are
described by Table 4 on the following page.

The minimum acceptable level of service established for this project is LOS D based on
average peak hour volumes, or no increase in delay for intersections operating below
the LOS D threshold without the inclusion of site traffic during morning and afternoon
peak hours. The following four conditions were evaluated for this analysis:

Condition 1 - 2010 Existing Year Traffic
Condition 2 - 2012 Design Year Traffic without Site Traffic
Condition 3 - 2012 Design Year Traffic with Site Traffic
Condition 4 - 2012 Design Year Traffic with Site Traffic and Improvements
              (For all intersections/critical intersection movements operating worse
            than a LOS D, where applicable)




                                           9
                                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                               RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


                                             Table 4
                             Level of Service (LOS) Characteristics

                                                                          Per Vehicle    Per Vehicle
    Level of Service Description                                             Delay         Delay
                                                                           at Signal    Unsignalized
    LOS A
      Free flow
      Freedom to select desired speed and maneuver is extremely high
                                                                          < 10.0 sec    < 10.0 sec
      General comfort level and convenience for motorists is excellent
    LOS B
      Stable flow                                                         10.0 ­ 20.0   10.0 ­ 15.0
      Other vehicles in the traffic stream become noticeable                  sec           sec
      Reduction in freedom to maneuver from LOS A
    LOS C
      Stable flow                                                         20.0 ­ 35.0   15.0 ­ 25.0
      Maneuverability/operating speed significantly affected by other
      vehicles                                                                sec           sec
      General level of comfort and convenience declines noticeably
    LOS D
      High density but stable flow                                        35.0 ­ 55.0   25.0 ­ 35.0
      Speed and freedom to maneuver are severely restricted
      General level of comfort / convenience is poor                          sec           sec
      Small traffic increases will generally cause operational problems
    LOS E
      Unstable flow
      Speed reduced to lower but relatively uniform value                 55.0 ­ 80.0   35.0 ­ 50.0
      Volumes at or near capacity level
      Comfort and convenience are extremely poor                              sec           sec
      Small flow increases or minor traffic stream disturbances will
      cause breakdowns
    LOS F
      Forced or breakdown flow
      Volumes exceed roadway capacity                                     > 80.0 sec    > 50.0 sec
      Formation of unstable queues
      Stoppages for long time periods because of traffic congestion

The results of this analysis are based on the LOS and delay procedures presented in
the HCM 2000. To obtain optimized signal timings for the actuated signals, the timing
optimization software Synchro Professional Version 7.0 was used to evaluate an
optimal cycle length for the given existing timing and phasing parameters and existing
volumes. The methodology of evaluating each condition is presented below:

·    Condition 1 ­ Use information from the Town of Cary Engineering Department for the cycle
     length, splits, and offsets of individual signalized intersections and report LOS and delay
     values from Synchro 7.0 (using percentile delay formulas).

·    Conditions 2 & 3 ­ Use existing signal timing data from Condition 1. If an intersection
     operates acceptably with the addition of background traffic growth and/or site traffic to the
     existing timing data, the same cycle lengths, splits and offsets were used for both


                                                     10
                                                 Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                            RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

    Conditions 2 and 3 for that intersection. If an intersection falls below an overall LOS D,
    mitigation strategies related to improving signal operations were tested in Condition 4.

·   Condition 4 ­ Reoptimize signal operations for beneficial improvements related to signal
    cycle lengths, splits and/or offsets. Both the cycle lengths and offsets will be optimized to
    ensure best progression schemes for through traffic, in this case. Also, evaluate the
    potential for different signal phasing schemes (left-turn lag phases, for example) Retain
    existing split minimums and any pedestrian timing values. Recommendations, if warranted,
    will be made to obtain at least LOS D for the intersection as a whole.

Improvements to deficient intersections in Conditions 2 and 3 were made by first
attempting to create an optimally progressed signal system with acceptable
adjustments to signal phasing, if feasible. If that did not produce satisfactory results for
all intersections, geometric improvements to improve intersection capacity were
considered for the deficient intersections.

Existing signal plans and coordinated signal timing information for the traffic signals in
the study area were obtained from the Town of Cary Engineering Department.
Information from the plans related to signal timing minimums and phasing sequences
were used for all conditions in this analysis.

Unsignalized intersections were analyzed in HCS+, using HCM delay and LOS
formulas. Their results were evaluated on a per-movement basis, since HCM methods
do not produce overall intersection level of service for unsignalized intersections. Thus,
intersections with deficient movements in Condition 3 may need to have the
movements evaluated for improvements in Condition 4. This methodology differs from
signalized intersections, where one or more movements at an intersection may be
deficient in Condition 3, but as long as the overall intersection level of service does not
fall below LOS D, no intersection improvements are deemed necessary.

If HCM analyses indicate abnormally large per-vehicle delay values for relatively low
approach volumes, the intersection under study was input into a traffic microsimulation
model to produce a comparable peak hour evaluation. If the simulation model delay
results indicated wide discrepancies in the per-vehicle delay for the affected
movements, the simulation values will be used instead of the HCM formula results in
determining the need for additional mitigation due to site traffic impact.

Figures 7 and 7A show the estimated traffic volumes for Condition 2 (2012 traffic
without site). Figures 10 and 10A show estimated traffic volumes for Condition 3
(2012 traffic with site). Appendix C contains the Synchro output for all four conditions
(where applicable), for all signalized intersections under study. Appendix D contains
the HCS output for all unsignalized intersections under study. Tables 5A and 5B show
the results of these analyses. A discussion of each intersection and its impacts follows
the tables.




                                               11
                                                          Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                               RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

            Table 5A - Level of Service Results for Study Area Intersections

                                            Condition 1      Condition 2       Condition 3    Condition 4
Intersection                               Existing 2010     2012 No Site      2012 W/Site   2012 Mitigated
                                            AM      PM       AM     PM         AM      PM     AM      PM
N. Harrison Ave & Reedy Creek Road           C        A       C        A        C      A     N/A      N/A

WB LT                                        D        D       D        D        D      D
WB RT                                        F        E       F        E        F      E
NB U-TURN                                    A        A       A        A        A      A
NB THRT                                      B        A       B        A        B      A
SB LT                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
SB TH                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
N. Harrison Avenue & Dynasty Drive           B        B       B        B        B      B     N/A      N/A

EB LT                                        E        D       E        D        E      D
EB THRT                                      D        E       D        E        D      E
WB LTR                                       D        D       D        D        D      D
NB LT                                        A        B       A        B        A      B
NB THRT                                      A        A       A        A        A      A
SB LT                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
SB THRT                                      A        B       A        B        A      B
N. Harrison Ave & Harrison Pointe Dr         A        A       A        B        A      B     N/A      N/A

WB LT                                        D        E       D        E        D      E
WB RT                                        D        D       D        D        D      D
NB U-TURN                                    A        A       A        A        A      A
NB TH                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
NB RT                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
SB LT                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
SB TH                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
N. Harrison Ave & N.W. Maynard Rd            C        D       C        D        C      D     N/A      N/A

EB LT                                        D        D        D       E        D      E
EB THRT                                      D        E        D       E        D      E
WB LT                                        D        E        D       E        D      E
WB TH                                        D        E        D       E        D      E
WB RT                                        C        B        C       B        C      B
NB LT                                        E        E        E       E        E      E
NB TH                                        B        B        B       B        B      B
NB RT                                        A        B        A       B        A      B
SB LT                                        E        E        E       E        E      F
SB TH                                        B        C        B       C        B      C
SB RT                                        B        B        B       B        B      B
N.E. Maynard Rd & Grande Heights Dr         N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

EB LT                                         A          B       A       B      A      B
EB TH                                        N/A        N/A     N/A     N/A    N/A    N/A
EB RT                                        N/A        N/A     N/A     N/A    N/A    N/A
WB LT                                         A          A       A       A      A      A
WB TH                                        N/A        N/A     N/A     N/A    N/A    N/A
WB RT                                        N/A        N/A     N/A     N/A    N/A    N/A
NB LTR                                        B          C       B       C      B      C
SB LTTH                                       C       E <C>      C       E      C      E
SB RT                                         B          B       B       B      B      B
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made
<X> => Results from Field Delay Study




                                                      12
                                                          Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                               RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

    Table 5A (Continued) - Level of Service Results for Study Area Intersections

                                            Condition 1      Condition 2       Condition 3    Condition 4
Intersection                               Existing 2010     2012 No Site      2012 W/Site   2012 Mitigated
                                            AM      PM       AM     PM         AM      PM     AM      PM
N. Harrison Ave & Harrison Pointe           N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A
RIRO Driveway

WB RT                                        B        A        B       A        B      B
N.E. Maynard Road & St. Charles Pl          N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

SB RT                                        A        B       A        B        A      B
N. Harrison Ave & Chapel Hill Road           C        C       C        D        C      D     N/A      N/A

EB LT                                        B        B       B        B        B      B
EB TH                                        C        D       C        D        C      D
EB RT                                        B        B       B        B        B      B
WB LT                                        B        C       B        D        B      D
WB THRT                                      C        C       C        D        C      D
NB LT                                        C        C       C        C        C      C
NB THRT                                      D        D       D        D        D      D
SB LT                                        C        B       C        B        C      B
SB THRT                                      C        C       C        C        C      C
N.W. Maynard Road & Evans Road               B        C       B        C        B      C     N/A      N/A

EB LT                                        D        D       D        E        D      E
EB TH                                        C        C       C        C        C      C
EB RT                                        B        D       B        D        B      D
WB LT                                        C        C       C        C        C      C
WB THRT                                      C        C       C        C        C      C
NB LT                                        B        B       B        C        B      C
NB THRT                                      A        C       A        C        A      C
SB LT                                        A        B       A        B        A      B
SB TH                                        C        C       C        C        C      C
SB RT                                        C        C       C        C        C      C
N.E. Maynard Road & Gregory Drive            A        A       A        A        A      A     N/A      N/A

EB LT                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
EB THRT                                      A        A       A        A        A      A
WB LT                                        A        A       A        A        A      A
WB THRT                                      A        A       A        A        A      A
NB LT                                        C        C       C        C        C      C
NB THRT                                      A        B       A        B        A      B
SB LT                                        C        C       C        C        C      C
SB THRT                                      A        B       A        B        A      B
N.E. Maynard Road & Reedy Creek              B        C       B        C        B      C     N/A      N/A
Road / Shopping Center Driveway

EB LT                                         A          B       A       B      A      B
EB THRT                                       A          B       A       B      A      B
WB LT                                         A          B       A       B      A      B
WB THRT                                       A          B       A       B      A      B
NB LT                                         B          B       B       B      B      B
NB THRT                                       B          A       B       A      B      A
SB LT                                         D          F       D       F      D      F
SB TH                                         B          B       B       B      B      B
SB RT                                         A          A       A       A      A      A
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made




                                                      13
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                               RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

            Table 5B - Delay Results for Study Area Intersections (Sec/Veh)

                                            Condition 1      Condition 2       Condition 3     Condition 4
Intersection                               Existing 2010     2012 No Site      2012 W/Site    2012 Mitigated
                                            AM      PM        AM     PM        AM      PM      AM      PM
N. Harrison Ave & Reedy Creek Road         31.2      6.4      34.7     6.9     34.7    6.9    N/A      N/A

WB LT                                      48.3      54.0    48.3     54.0     48.3    54.0
WB RT                                      97.2      58.3    110.6    58.7     110.6   58.7
NB U-TURN                                  0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0
NB THRT                                    17.0      2.9     17.6     3.0      17.7    2.9
SB LT                                      4.2       5.7      6.3     7.6       6.5    7.9
SB TH                                      0.5       0.9      0.5     0.9       0.5    0.9
N. Harrison Avenue & Dynasty Drive         11.8      17.0     12.1    18.1      12.2   18.2   N/A      N/A

EB LT                                      57.8      45.8     58.5    45.5     58.5    45.4
EB THRT                                    48.3      62.9     48.0    63.1     48.2    63.4
WB LTR                                     46.4      51.6     46.3    52.2     46.3    52.7
NB LT                                      2.5       16.5     2.6     19.8     2.6     19.9
NB THRT                                    6.3       8.3      6.6     9.6      6.7     9.6
SB LT                                      3.3       4.7      3.3     5.0      3.3     5.0
SB THRT                                    7.0       12.4     7.2     13.3     7.2     13.6
N. Harrison Ave & Harrison Pointe Dr        4.8       8.9      5.0    10.9      5.1    11.6   N/A      N/A

WB LT                                      48.0      58.3     48.6    60.9     48.8    62.3
WB RT                                      47.4      51.9     47.9    47.3     47.9    45.4
NB U-TURN                                   0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      5.0     9.9
NB TH                                       5.2       7.2      5.2     8.8      5.2     9.6
NB RT                                       4.7       6.9      4.6     8.2      4.5     9.1
SB LT                                       1.2       3.6      1.4     4.9      1.6     5.7
SB TH                                       0.5       5.3      0.5     7.1      0.5     7.5
N. Harrison Ave & N.W. Maynard Rd          33.2      45.2     34.0    48.2     34.1    49.3   N/A      N/A

EB LT                                      53.1      54.8     54.1    55.3     54.5    55.8
EB THRT                                    36.9      58.3     36.7    63.8     36.6    63.1
WB LT                                      49.8      66.4     50.1    67.9     50.3    68.9
WB TH                                      52.2      63.4     52.7    72.3     52.8    75.1
WB RT                                      31.7      18.0     31.8    18.3     31.8    18.5
NB LT                                      61.8      76.4     61.5    75.9     61.3    75.7
NB TH                                      10.8      18.0     11.3    17.9     11.6    17.8
NB RT                                      6.7       11.1     6.8     11.8     6.9     11.8
SB LT                                      67.3      71.2     71.2    76.5     71.4    83.8
SB TH                                      17.3      24.1     18.7    23.0     18.7    23.2
SB RT                                      15.7      15.8     16.7    14.7     16.7    14.6
N.E. Maynard Rd & Grande Heights Dr        N/A       N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A    N/A      N/A

EB LT                                      8.8         10.0      8.9    10.2   8.9     10.2
EB TH                                      N/A          N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A
EB RT                                      N/A          N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A
WB LT                                      8.4          9.6      8.5    9.7    8.5     9.7
WB TH                                      N/A          N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A
WB RT                                      N/A          N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A
NB LTR                                     12.2        14.9     12.5    15.4   12.5    15.5
SB LTTR                                    15.7        35.3     16.3    40.5   16.4    42.2
                                                      <23.9>
SB RT                                        9.8       11.1      9.9    11.3    9.9    11.3
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made
<X> => Results from Field Delay Study




                                                      14
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                               RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

    Table 5B (Continued) - Delay Results for Study Area Intersections (Sec/Veh)

                                            Condition 1      Condition 2       Condition 3     Condition 4
Intersection                               Existing 2010     2012 No Site      2012 W/Site    2012 Mitigated
                                            AM      PM        AM     PM        AM      PM      AM      PM
N. Harrison Ave & Harrison Pointe           N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    N/A     N/A      N/A
RIRO Driveway

WB RT                                      12.0      9.8      12.2    10.0     12.4   10.2
N.E. Maynard Road & St. Charles Place      N/A       N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    N/A     N/A      N/A

SB RT                                      9.3       10.5     9.4     10.8      9.4   10.9
N. Harrison Ave & Chapel Hill Road         30.2      35.3     30.6    38.6     31.2   38.8    N/A      N/A

EB LT                                      13.9      16.1     14.4    16.4     14.6   16.5
EB TH                                      27.1      48.5     28.8    52.1     29.0   52.4
EB RT                                      13.6      18.1     14.1    18.1     14.2   18.2
WB LT                                      14.1      31.0     14.8    39.0     14.9   39.5
WB THRT                                    25.7      33.7     27.4    41.1     29.7   41.5
NB LT                                      24.6      31.6     24.2    32.0     24.0   32.2
NB THRT                                    44.3      40.6     43.1    41.2     43.1   41.2
SB LT                                      22.3      16.2     21.2    17.6     21.7   17.9
SB THRT                                    24.3      29.7     24.5    29.3     24.3   29.7
N.W. Maynard Road & Evans Road             15.9      30.9     17.0    32.7     17.0   32.7    N/A      N/A

EB LT                                      42.7      54.6     42.8    56.1     42.7   56.2
EB TH                                      32.2      27.6     31.9    27.3     31.8   27.3
EB RT                                      16.8      41.4     13.8    44.5     13.6   44.4
WB LT                                      34.8      27.9     34.6    27.7     34.4   27.7
WB THRT                                    34.1      27.4     33.9    27.2     33.7   27.2
NB LT                                      10.1      18.8     12.5    23.3     12.6   23.8
NB THRT                                    7.9       20.7     8.5     21.5     8.6    21.5
SB LT                                      8.7       11.8     9.3     12.3     9.4    12.4
SB TH                                      21.2      28.8     23.9    30.1     24.1   30.2
SB RT                                      22.5      20.2     24.8    20.2     25.0   20.3
N.E. Maynard Road & Gregory Drive           6.6       3.7      6.6     3.7      6.6    3.7    N/A      N/A

EB LT                                       3.9       3.9      4.1    4.0      4.1    4.1
EB THRT                                     3.6       3.4      3.8    3.5      3.8    3.5
WB LT                                       1.8       0.9      1.8    1.0      1.8    1.0
WB THRT                                     1.4       0.4      1.5    0.4      1.5    0.4
NB LT                                      29.2      26.2     29.1    26.2     29.1   26.2
NB THRT                                     9.7      13.8      9.4    13.5     9.4    13.5
SB LT                                      29.0      28.2     29.1    28.3     29.1   28.3
SB THRT                                     9.3      13.2      9.1    13.0     9.1    13.0
N.E. Maynard Road & Reedy Creek            10.3      30.4     10.5    34.2     10.5   34.1    N/A      N/A
Road / Shopping Center Driveway

EB LT                                        6.8       10.9      7.1    12.2   7.1    12.6
EB THRT                                      6.7       11.1      6.9    11.3   6.9    11.4
WB LT                                        7.4       13.2      7.6    14.3   7.6    14.4
WB THRT                                      5.0       13.4      5.1    13.9   5.1    14.0
NB LT                                        16.2      14.6     16.2    14.7   16.2   14.7
NB THRT                                      12.7       7.8     14.7    7.7    14.7    7.7
SB LT                                        35.1     111.9     36.0   131.2   36.0   131.2
SB TH                                        15.8      14.3     15.8    14.3   15.8   14.3
SB RT                                        6.8        5.2      6.6    5.1    6.6     5.1
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made




                                                      15
                                              Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                           RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


B. Capacity Analysis Results for Study Area Intersections

   i.) Condition 1 ­ Existing 2010
   As shown in Tables 5A and 5B, all signalized intersections in the project study area
   currently operate acceptably in the existing 2010 AM and PM peak hour capacity
   analyses. This is due to adequate laneage capacity on both N. Harrison Avenue
   and Maynard Road and optimized/coordinated signal operations. The intersection
   of N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive is a LOS E for southbound stop-
   controlled left-turn movements in the PM peak hour.

   HNTB conducted a field intersection delay study for this approach on July 13, 2010
   to compare HCS-estimated delay with field-observed delay for the Town of Cary
   TAR 309a Fifth Third Bank study. Results are shown in Table 6, below, and
   indicate that actual observed per-vehicle delay is significantly less than computed
   delay, though observed maximum queues are still relatively significant. Raw data
   from the field study is found in Appendix E. The number of left and right-turns at
   this approach is relatively similar to turning movement count data completed prior to
   the field delay count. Remaining study area stop-controlled intersections have
   adequate gaps for minor street traffic and/or have relatively low overall peak hour
   traffic volumes.

    Table 6 ­ Comparison of Field Measured Delay and HCS Calculated Delay
     N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive (Southbound Approach)

                           Field-Measured   HCS Average     Field Measured    HCS Estimated
                                                                                th
                           Average Delay       Delay          Max Queue       95 %tile Max
    Movement                (sec/vehicle)   (sec/vehicle)      (Vehicles)    Queue (Vehicles)
    SB Left-Turn/Through        23.9             35.3             5                2.70

    SB Right-Turn               7.8              11.1             3                0.47


   ii.) Condition 2 ­ 2012 Without Site Traffic
   The addition of ambient area-wide traffic growth estimates will increase delays at all
   intersections in 2012, but only one intersection (N.E. Maynard Road and Grande
   Heights Drive) would require mitigation to meet Town of Cary APFO thresholds for
   this study. No additional intersections fall below the LOS D thresholds, even with
   identical signal timings used from the 2010 existing peak hour traffic analyses.

   iii.) Condition 3 ­ 2012 With Site Traffic
   The addition of traffic generated by the RBC Bank project will marginally increase
   delays for most study area intersections. No new operational deficiencies are
   expected. Optimized signal timing and parameters were kept the same from
   Condition 2 to provide the most conservative and comparable estimate of additional
   delays caused by site-related traffic at each signalized intersection. The deficient
   PM peak hour operations at N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive are


                                            16
                                          Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                      RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development

marginally worsened by approximately two seconds per vehicle at the southbound
stop-controlled critical approach lane (left-turn/through), and it is expected that
relatively few additional site-related trips would use the southbound approach.

iv.) Condition 4 ­ 2012 Mitigated With Site Traffic
The intersection of N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive has calculated
PM peak hour deficient operations in the 2010 existing year for the southbound left-
turn/through movement and these deficiencies continue and slightly worsen in the
2012 No-Build and Build Scenarios. Though the existing field delay study showed
that actual per-vehicle delay was an acceptable LOS C for the southbound left-
turn/through movement, it is possible that additional background traffic growth
(particularly if the St. Charles Place development reaches full build-out) will cause
the stop-controlled approaches to exceed LOS D thresholds in the future. To
mitigate potential deficient operations, two feasible options are possible ­ limit
access at the intersection or signalize the intersection.

·   Access limitations for left-turns at the minor street approaches would improve
    operations at the intersection, but would add additional u-turn vehicles
    downstream, particularly at the Maynard Road/N. Harrison Avenue intersection,
    which faces high traffic volumes during peak periods.

·   Signalization of the intersection is possible, though the distance between the
    intersection and the Maynard Road/N. Harrison Avenue intersection is less than
    a desirable 1,200 feet. The intersection was analyzed for a peak hour signal
    warrant per methodology found in the 2009 Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
    Devices (MUTCD). Analysis results are found in Appendix E. The intersection
    meets warrants for a signal in the 2012 PM peak hour with site traffic scenario,
    but does not in the AM peak hour, and likely does not for off-peak times during
    an average weekday.

·   Signalization of the intersection may lead to an increase in "cut-through" traffic
    through the Harrison Pointe Shopping Center as southbound Harrison Avenue
    traffic may divert through the shopping center to avoid the traffic signal at
    Maynard Road and vice versa.

Since the intersection only meets a single peak hour warrant in the 2012 design
year, and with the likelihood of little additional background developing in the near
future that would impact this study area intersection, no potential mitigation
improvement was tested for this analysis.




                                        17
                                              Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 324
                          RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe -- Proposed Commercial Development


V. SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS

In conclusion, of the eleven existing intersections, only one experiences deficient
operations predicted by HCS methodologies in the 2010 existing scenario analyzed for
this study ­ the intersection of N.E. Maynard Road and Grande Heights Drive. In the
2012 design year No-Build Scenario, no other study area intersections are projected to
drop below Town of Cary LOS D thresholds for adequate traffic operations in the Base
Transportation Zone. The addition of site generated traffic from the proposed RBC
Bank development will not cause any additional intersections to drop to a deficient LOS
in either peak hour in the 2012 design year Build Scenario.

To mitigate potential future LOS deficiencies to Town APFO standards, a two-phase
traffic signal), would be required at this location contingent on the intersection meeting a
full traffic signal warrant analysis, per MUTCD guidelines. However, it is not the intent of
the ordinance to require signals to be automatically installed at all non-signalized
intersections that operate at LOS E or F.

This improvement would only recommended pending a full signal warrant analysis for
this intersection, as the intersection was analyzed for the MUTCD Peak Hour Warrant
and did not meet the peak hour warrant thresholds in the AM peak hour. It did meet
peak hour warrants in the PM peak hour, but may not meet any other warrants,
particularly the more comprehensive Four-Hour Warrant thresholds. Figure 11A shows
the location of the potential operational deficiency.

The location of the intersection to the nearest major signalized intersection (Maynard
Road and N. Harrison Avenue) is slightly less than a desirable 1,200 feet spacing
frequently recommended for signal spacing along major arterial roadways. Results
from a field delay study conducted by HNTB in July 2010 indicate that actual observed
delays for southbound critical movement left-turning vehicles is about 40% less than
estimated from HCS methodologies, and would correspond to an acceptable LOS C,
compared to the estimated LOS E from the capacity analysis. Therefore, the
installation of a traffic signal was not analyzed in the study and is not recommended at
this time to mitigate traffic impacts from the RBC Bank site.

Another potential mitigation strategy to improve operations at the intersection would be
to limit left-turn access out of the Grande Heights Drive southbound approach.
However, this may cause operational problems due to increased u-turn movements at
the Maynard Road/N. Harrison Avenue intersection downstream. With multiple access
options for traffic within the Harrison Pointe Shopping Center, it is recommended to
continue to allow left-turn access for Grande Heights Drive at the N.E. Maynard Road
intersection and only consider signalization in the future if it meets additional MUTCD
signal warrants.




                                            18
Appendix A ­ Figures
         LEGEND

           Existing
           Intersections

           Proposed Site
           Location




          Town of Cary TAR 324
        RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
 N       Commercial Development
          SITE LOCATION MAP
 NOT        DATE: October 2011
 TO
SCALE          FIGURE 1
                                          PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
     NOT      Town of Cary TAR 324
     TO     RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe    DATE: October 2011
N
    SCALE    Commercial Development
                                               FIGURE 2
                     LEGEND                                                      2010 EXISTING LANEAGE                                             NE Maynard Road
                                        Town of Cary TAR 324
LANEAGE, GEOMETRICS                   RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                     DATE: October 2011
AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                       Commercial Development
     AS SHOWN                                                                            FIGURE 3
                                                                                                                                                             150'

                                                                                                                           Reedy                                               50'
                                                                                                                                                                                      Shopping
                                                                                                                           Creek                                                       Center
                                                                                                                           Road                       150'                            Driveway




                                                                                                                                                                       TWLTL
                                                                                                                                              25' FLARE




                                                                                                                                                             TWLTL
                                                                                                                                                                                75'
                                                                                                                           Gregory
                                             Reedy                                                                          Drive
                                             Creek                                                                                                100'
                                             Road




                                                                                                                                                                       TWLTL
                                                                           Dynasty                                                                                                       Chapel Hill Road
                                                                                                                                     Grande Heights
                                                                            Drive                           Harrison                     Drive
                                                                                                           Pointe Drive

                                                                                                                                         St. Charles Place




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N Harrison Avenue
 N Harrison Avenue




                                      75'                                                                                                   TAR 324                                            150'
                                                                                      200'                                                   SITE                                                            175'
                                                 150'



                              TWLTL                                 150'                                                                                                                150'
                                                                               100'                                                                                                                   100'     100'
                                                                                                                                   SEE FIGURE 3A


                                                                           Dynasty                                                               300'          250'
                                                                            Drive
                                                                                                                                                                               100'
                                                                                                                          Evans                                                        Lowes
                                                                                                                          Road                                                        Driveway
                                                                                                                                                 TWLTL

                                                                                                                                                 DROP                 350'




                                                         NOT
                                             N




                                                         TO
                                                        SCALE                                                                                      NW Maynard Road
             N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                    NOT
                                                                                                         N          TO
                                                                                                                   SCALE

                     250'
                                     125'

                                                                      Harrison
                                                                     Pointe Drive




                                       DROP
                             125'



                                                                                       Grande
                                                                                       Heights
                                                            Harrison Pointe
                                                                                        Drive
                                                            RIRO Driveway

                                     200'
                                               SITE
                                    650'
                                                                                                 125'




                                                                                125'
          275'      400'
                                    250'                                                         TWLTL
  NW                                                                                                                 NE
Maynard                                                                                                            Maynard
 Road                                                                                                               Road
                                                                               375'
             375'
  54                          75'      300'                                                                          54
                                                                              DROP




                                                 St. Charles Place       St. Charles Place Driveway

                           LEGEND                                                          2010 EXISTING LANEAGE
                                                Town of Cary TAR 324
                        LANEAGE,                                                             DATE: October 2011
                                              RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
                     GEOMETRICS, AND
                     TRAFFIC CONTROL           Commercial Development
                        AS SHOWN
                                                                                                 FIGURE 3A
                     LEGEND                                                          2010 EXISTING PEAK HOUR VOLUMES                                         NE Maynard Road
                                             Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                DATE: October 2011                                             736               832
XXX = AM Peak Hour                         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                                                                                        (1018)            (1373)
(XXX) = PM Peak Hour                        Commercial Development
                                                                                                     FIGURE 4
                                                                                                                                                        310 411 15
                                                                                                                                           363                                     8 (39)       32
                                                                                                                                                       (173) (803) (42)
                                                                                                                                          (228)                                    13 (21)     (93)
                                                                                                                                Reedy                                              11 (33)               Shopping
                                                                                                                                Creek                                                                     Center
                                                                                                                                Road                    244 (474)                                        Driveway
                                                                                                                                            282                                                 27
                                                                                                                                                           5 (37)            40 580 7
                                                                                                                                           (560)                                               (97)
                                                                                                                                                          33 (49)           (34) (860) (18)

                                                                                                                                                        23 326 12
                                                                                                                                             43                                    53 (25)     117
                                                                                                                                                       (59) (559) (50)
                                                                                                                                           (134)                                   3 (8)       (60)
                                                                                                                                                                                   61 (27)
                                                                                                                                Gregory
                                                    Reedy                                                                        Drive
                                                    Creek                                                                                                 67 (47)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 39
                                                                                                                                           128              3 (7)
                                                    Road                                                                                   (80)                              17 424 24         (137)
                                                                                                                                                          58 (26)           (67) (779) (80)
                                             485
                                            (166)
                                                         200                        Dynasty                                                                                                                   Chapel Hill Road
                                                                                                                                          Grande Heights
                                                        (589)                        Drive                        Harrison                    Drive                                                            497             593
                                                                                                                 Pointe Drive                                                                                 (875)           (721)
                                                                              50               21
                                                                             (59)             (86)
                                                                                                                                                  St. Charles Place




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                        92 330 75
 N Harrison Avenue




                                                                        16 13 21
                                    482   3                                                                                                          TAR 324                                           (113) (559) (203)         122 (86)
                      1572                           11 (15)            (9) (18) (32)          8 (43)                                                                                                                                         600
                                   (161) (5)                                                                                                                                                                                     393 (293)
                      (616)                          1090 (455)                                1059 (488)                                             SITE                                                                                   (481)
                                                                                               40 (130)                                                                                                                          85 (102)
                                                     0 (0)


                                                                                                                                                                                                         60 (118)
                      547      189 (574)                                  3 (3)                                                                                                                                                               346
                                                                                                                                                                                                        182 (631)
                     (1746)   358 (1172)                            348 (1112)           88 10 53                                                                                                                                            (937)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           6 (22)           37 411 16
                                                                       15 (52)          (41) (40) (107)
                                                                                                                                        SEE FIGURE 4A                                                                      (10) (510) (24)


                                                                             68             151
                                                                            (200)          (188)                                                                                                                421            464
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (688)          (544)
                                                                                                                                                         115 362 23                 26 (26)
                                                                                    Dynasty                                                   676
                                                                                                                                                         (37) (886) (155)
                                                                                                                                                                                                91
                                                                                                                                             (244)                                  23 (10)    (73)
                                                                                     Drive                                                                                          42 (37)
                                                                                                                                 Evans                                                                    Lowes
                                                                                                                                 Road                                                                    Driveway
                                                                                                                                                         97 (291)
                                                                                                                                              372                                               131
                                                                                                                                                          27 (47)
                                                                                                                                             (963)                           538 451 81        (246)
                                                                                                                                                        248 (625)
                                                                                                                                                                            (197) (480) (44)



                                                                                                                                                               652               1070
                                                                 NOT                                                                                          (1548)             (721)
                                                    N




                                                                 TO
                                                                SCALE                                                                                        NW Maynard Road
                         N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                                  NOT
                            453             1160                                                                                     N            TO
                          (1255)            (684)
                                                                                                                                                 SCALE

                         408 45
                        (1064) (191)          33 (95)            38
                                              5 (35)           (130)
                                                                                         Harrison
                                                                                        Pointe Drive
                                                                  52
                                            0 1140 1            (202)
                                           (0) (561) (11)



                                              16 (23)                                                        Grande
                                                                              Harrison Pointe
                                                                                                             Heights
                                                                              RIRO Driveway
                                                                                                              Drive
                                        1083 50                                                                          54
                                                                                                       31
                                        (534) (78)                                                                     (165)
                                                        SITE                                         (195)
                                                                  13            20
                                                                 (73)          (30)
                    93 214 108                                                                   9    1 21               34 (100)
            498                                144 (47)                 13                                                                549
                   (313) (663) (300)                                                            (84) (1) (110)           513 (656)
          (1078)                               367 (669)               (73)                                                              (760)
                                                                                  20 (30)                                2 (4)
                                               27 (113)
  NW                                                                              498 (790)                                                        NE
Maynard                                                                                                                                          Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                                             Road
                    264 (157)                                                                   20 (65)
           598                                                                                                                            466
                    305 (541)                                                                 444 (750)
  54      (765)       29 (67)
                                           38 577 15
                                                                                                   2 (1)
                                                                                                                     1 0 1               (870)     54
                                          (96) (300) (64)                                                           (4) (0) (10)


                                                                                                        5                2
                            270             630                                                        (6)             (14)
                           (843)           (460)
                                                               St. Charles Place              St. Charles Place Driveway

                                       LEGEND                                                                2010 EXISTING PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
                                                              Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                                    DATE: October 2011
                                XXX = AM Peak Hour          RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
                                                             Commercial Development
                                (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                    FIGURE 4A
                     LEGEND                                                             2012 AMBIENT TRAFFIC GROWTH VOLUMES                                         NE Maynard Road
                                                 Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                      DATE: October 2011                                              765              860
XXX = AM Peak Hour                             RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                                                                                                            (1428)
                                                                                                                                                                    (1059)
(XXX) = PM Peak Hour                            Commercial Development
                                                                                                           FIGURE 5
                                                                                                                                                              322 427 16
                                                                                                                                                 378                                     3 (41)       28
                                                                                                                                                             (180) (835) (44)
                                                                                                                                                (237)                                    14 (22)     (97)
                                                                                                                                      Reedy                                              11 (34)               Shopping
                                                                                                                                      Creek                                                                     Center
                                2012 AMBIENT TRAFFIC = 2010 EXISTING                                                                  Road                   254 (493)                                         Driveway
                               VOLUMES X 2% GROWTH/YEAR X 2 YEARS                                                                                 293                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                                5 (38)             42 603 7
                                                                                                                                                 (582)                                               (101)
                                                                                                                                                               34 (51)            (35) (894) (19)

                                                                                                                                                              24 339 12
                                                                                                                                                   45        (61) (581) (52)             55 (26)     121
                                                                                                                                                 (139)                                   3 (8)       (62)
                                                                                                                                                                                         63 (28)
                                                                                                                                      Gregory
                                                        Reedy                                                                          Drive
                                                        Creek                                                                                    133            70 (49)                                40
                                                        Road                                                                                     (83)             3 (7)            18 441 25         (142)
                                                                                                                                                                60 (27)           (70) (810) (83)
                                                 504
                                                (172)                                     Dynasty                                                                                                                  Chapel Hill Road
                                                               208                                                                              Grande Heights
                                                              (613)                        Drive                        Harrison                                                                                     517            616
                                                                                                                                                    Drive
                                                                                                                       Pointe Drive                                                                                 (910)          (749)
                                                                                    53               21
                                                                                   (61)             (90)
                                                                                                                                                        St. Charles Place
                                                                                                                                                                                                             96 343 78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N Harrison Avenue
                                                                              17 14 22
 N Harrison Avenue




                                        501 3                                                        8 (45)                                                TAR 324                                          (118) (581) (211)         127 (89)
                      1635                                  11 (16)           (9) (19) (33)                                                                                                                                                        623
                                       (167) (5)                                                     1101 (508)                                             SITE                                                                      408 (305)
                      (640)                                 1134 (473)                                                                                                                                                                            (500)
                                                            0 (0)                                    42 (135)                                                                                                                         88 (106)


                                   197 (597)                                    3 (3)                                                                                                                         62 (130)
                        569                                                                                                                                                                                  189 (610)                             284
                                  372 (1219)                              362 (1156)           92 10 55
                      (1816)                                                                                                                                                                                    6 (28)           38 427 17        (846)
                                                                             16 (54)          (43) (42) (111)
                                                                                                                                              SEE FIGURE 5A                                                                     (10) (530) (25)

                                                                                    72           157
                                                                                                (196)                                                                                                                437            482
                                                                                  (208)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (715)          (565)
                                                                                                                                                               120 376 24
                                                                                          Dynasty                                                  704                                    27 (27)     95
                                                                                                                                                               (38) (921) (161)
                                                                                           Drive                                                  (253)                                   24 (10)    (75)
                                                                                                                                                                                          44 (38)
                                                                                                                                       Evans                                                                   Lowes
                                                                                                                                       Road                                                                   Driveway
                                                                                                                                                             101 (303)
                                                                                                                                                    387                                               136
                                                                                                                                                               28 (49)
                                                                                                                                                  (1002)                           560 469 84        (256)
                                                                                                                                                             258 (650)
                                                                                                                                                                                  (205) (499) (46)


                                                                                                                                                                     678              1113
                                                                       NOT                                                                                          (1609)            (750)
                                                        N




                                                                       TO
                                                                      SCALE                                                                                        NW Maynard Road
                         N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                                         NOT
                           471              1044
                                            (682)
                                                                                                                                            N            TO
                          (1306)
                                                                                                                                                        SCALE
                         424 47
                        (1107) (199)          34 (99)              39
                                              5 (36)              (135)
                                                                                         Harrison
                                                                                        Pointe Drive
                                                                   54
                                           0 1010 7               (210)
                                          (0) (583) (11)


                                              17 (24)                         Harrison Pointe                      Grande
                                                                              RIRO Driveway                        Heights
                                                                                                                    Drive
                                        1126 52
                                        (555) (81)                                                      32                    56
                                                           SITE                                        (202)                 (172)
                                                                     14         21
                                                                    (76)       (31)
                    97 223 112                                          14                       9 1       22                   35 (104)
           519                                 150 (49)                                                                                          571
                   (326) (690) (312)                                   (76)                     (87) (1) (114)                  534 (682)
          (1122)                               382 (696)                                                                                        (790)
                                                                                  21 (31)                                       2 (4)
                                               28 (118)
  NW                                                                              518 (822)                                                               NE
Maynard                                                                                                                                                 Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                                                    Road
                    275 (163)                                                                     21 (68)
           622      317 (570)                                                                   462 (780)                                        485
  54      (803)       30 (70)
                                           40 600 16
                                                                                                     2 (1)
                                                                                                                          1 0 1                 (904)     54
                                          (100) (312) (67)                                                               (4) (0) (10)


                                                                                                              5                2
                            281             656                                                              (6)             (14)
                           (878)           (479)
                                                                  St. Charles Place           St. Charles Place Driveway

                                       LEGEND                                                           2012 AMBIENT TRAFFIC GROWTH VOLUMES
                                                               Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                                         DATE: October 2011
                                XXX = AM Peak Hour           RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
                                                              Commercial Development
                                (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                          FIGURE 5A
                    LEGEND                                                BACKGROUND DEVELOPMENT LOCATIONS                                            NE Maynard Road
                                              Town of Cary TAR 324                                                                                                                                      Chatham
                    = Not Developed         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe             DATE: October 2011                                                             54                                    Village
                                             Commercial Development
                    = Partially Built-out                                             FIGURE 6-1

                    = Fully Built-Out
                                                                                                                            Reedy                                                     Shopping
                                                                                                                            Creek                                                      Center
                                                                                                                            Road                                                      Driveway

                                                                                                                                       Metropolitan
                                                                                                                                       Phases 1&2



                                                                                                                            Gregory
                                                  Reedy                                                                      Drive
                                                  Creek
                                                  Road


                                                                          Dynasty                                                                                                        Chapel Hill Road
                                                                                                                                      Grande Heights
                                                                           Drive
                                                                                                                                          Drive
                                                                                                                                                                        St. Charles
                                                                                                          Harrison
                                                                                                                                                                           Place
                                                                                                         Pointe Drive                     St. Charles Place




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N Harrison Avenue
N Harrison Avenue




                                                                                                                    Fifth
                                                                                                                                           TAR 324
                                                                                                                    Third                                     54
                                                                                                                                             Site
                                                                                                                    Bank



                                                                                                           Harrison
                                                                                                          Grande Apts




                                                                          Dynasty
                                                                           Drive
                                                                                                                             Evans                                                     Lowes
                                                                                                                             Road                                                     Driveway

                                                                                                                                            Northwoods
                                                                                                                                             Crossing

                                                                                                                                              Maynard
                                                            NOT                                                                               Station
                                                  N




                                                            TO
                                                           SCALE                                                                                      NW Maynard Road       54
                     LEGEND                                                          2012 TOTAL BACKGROUND VOLUMES                                                 NE Maynard Road
                                          Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                            DATE: October 2011                                                             2       2
XXX = AM Peak Hour                      RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                                                                                                               (5)
                                                                                                                                                                          (3)
(XXX) = PM Peak Hour                     Commercial Development
                                                                                                 FIGURE 6-2                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                  1                 (3)
                                                                                                                                                 (1)
                                                                                                                                      Reedy                                               Shopping
                           SEE APPENDIX C FOR                                                                                         Creek                                                Center
                         INDIVIDUAL BACKGROUND                                                                                        Road                                                Driveway
                           GENERATOR TRAFFIC                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                 (1)              1 (1)          1 2
                               ASSIGNMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                (1) (5)

                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                   (4)


                                                                                                                                      Gregory
                                               Reedy                                                                                   Drive
                                               Creek
                                               Road                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                  (6)


                                                                                Dynasty                                                                                                         Chapel Hill Road
                                                                                                                                                Grande Heights
                                                                                 Drive                         Harrison                                                                           2           1
                                                                                                                                                    Drive
                                                                                            0                 Pointe Drive                                                                       (1)         (1)
                                                                           0
                                                                          (1)              (1)
                                                                                                                                                        St. Charles Place
                                                                                                                                                                                           2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N Harrison Avenue
                                                                                0
 N Harrison Avenue




                        3                                                      (1)          0 (1)                       Fifth Third                          TAR 324                      (1)                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 (1)
                       (4)                         3 (4)                                    3 (4)                          Bank                               SITE                                                       (1)
                                                                                            1 (1)


                                                                                                                                                                                            1 (1)
                        2                                                                                                                                                                   1 (3)                         1
                       (7)      2 (7)                                 2 (7)                       1                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                            0 (1)                        (3)
                                                                                                 (1)
                                                                                                                                              SEE FIGURE 6A                                                (1)

                                                                          1                 1
                                                                         (1)               (1)                                                                                                    0           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1)         (1)
                                                                                                                                                                 1 2
                                                                                Dynasty                                                                 1       (1) (4)
                                                                                 Drive                                                                 (1)
                                                                                                                                       Evans                                               Lowes
                                                                                                                                       Road                                               Driveway
                                                                                                                                                        1         1 (1)
                                                                                                                                                       (1)                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                   (4)


                                                                                                                                                                        2          3
                                                            NOT                                                                                                        (4)        (4)
                                               N




                                                            TO
                                                           SCALE                                                                                                  NW Maynard Road
                  N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                            NOT
                           3               4                                                                                    N           TO
                          (9)             (5)
                                                                                                                                           SCALE

                        3
                 (-7) (16)                2 (6)               6
                                          4 (21)             (27)

                                                                                        Harrison
                                                                                       Pointe Drive
                                                              7
                                             2 4             (24)
                                           (-1) (8)


                                                                                                              Grande
                                                                           Harrison Pointe                    Heights
                                                                           RIRO Driveway                       Drive

                                   11                                                                    1
                                  (17)                                                                  (2)
                                                                3             2
                                                      SITE
                                                               (8)           (4)

                 1 1 2                                                3                                   1
           3                               1 (4)                                                                                      3
                (2) (3) (4)                                          (8)                                 (2)            3 (4)
          (5)                              2 (0)                                                                                     (4)
                                           1 (2)                               2 (4)
  NW                                                                           1 (0)
                                                                                                                                             NE
Maynard                                                                                                                                    Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                                       Road
           4    4 (10)                                                                                                                3
  54               (-5)                          6                                              2 (4)                                        54
          (5)                                                                                                                        (6)
                                                (3)


                       2                  6
                      (5)                (3)
                                                             St. Charles Place              St. Charles Place Driveway

                                LEGEND                                                           2012 TOTAL BACKGROUND TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                         Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                                    DATE: October 2011
                           XXX = AM Peak Hour          RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
                                                        Commercial Development
                          (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                          FIGURE 6A
                     LEGEND                                                             2012 TRAFFIC VOLUMES WITHOUT SITE                                        NE Maynard Road
                                              Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                   DATE: October 2011                                              767              862
XXX = AM Peak Hour                          RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                                                                                                            (1433)
                                                                                                                                                                 (1062)
(XXX) = PM Peak Hour                         Commercial Development
                                                                                                        FIGURE 7
                                                                                                                                                           322 429 16
                                                                                                                                              379                                     3 (41)       28
                                                                                                                                                          (180) (838) (44)
                                                                                                                                             (238)                                    14 (22)     (97)
                                                                                                                                   Reedy                                              11 (34)               Shopping
                                                                                                                                   Creek                                                                     Center
                               2012 WITHOUT SITE TRAFFIC =                                                                         Road                                                                     Driveway
                                                                                                                                                          254 (493)
                                  2012 AMBIENT GROWTH                                                                                          294                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                             5 (38)             43 605 7
                                  VOLUMES + 2012 TOTAL                                                                                        (583)                                               (101)
                                                                                                                                                            35 (52)            (36) (899) (19)
                                 BACKGROUND VOLUMES
                                                                                                                                                           24 342 12
                                                                                                                                                45        (61) (585) (52)             55 (26)     121
                                                                                                                                              (139)                                   3 (8)       (62)
                                                                                                                                                                                      63 (28)
                                                                                                                                   Gregory
                                                     Reedy                                                                          Drive
                                                     Creek                                                                                    133            70 (49)                                40
                                                     Road                                                                                     (83)             3 (7)            18 444 18         (142)
                                                                                                                                                             60 (27)           (70) (816) (83)
                                              504
                                             (172)                                     Dynasty                                                                                                                  Chapel Hill Road
                                                            208                                                                              Grande Heights
                                                           (613)                        Drive                        Harrison                                                                                     519            617
                                                                                                                                                 Drive
                                                                                                                    Pointe Drive                                                                                 (911)          (750)
                                                                                 53               21
                                                                                (62)             (91)
                                                                                                                                                     St. Charles Place
                                                                                                                                                                                                          98 343 78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N Harrison Avenue
                                                                           17 14 22
 N Harrison Avenue




                                     501 3                                                        8 (46)                                                TAR 324                                          (119) (581) (211)         127 (89)
                      1638                               11 (16)           (9) (19) (34)                                                                                                                                                        626
                                    (167) (5)                                                     1104 (512)                                             SITE                                                                      411 (306)
                      (644)                              1137 (477)                                                                                                                                                                            (501)
                                                         0 (0)                                    43 (136)                                                                                                                         88 (106)


                                197 (597)                                    3 (3)                                                                                                                         93 (124)
                        571                                                                                                                                                                               268 (653)                             285
                               374 (1226)                              364 (1163)            92 10 56
                      (1823)                                                                                                                                                                                11 (22)           39 427 17        (849)
                                                                          16 (54)           (43) (42) (112)
                                                                                                                                           SEE FIGURE 7A                                                                     (11) (530) (25)

                                                                                 73            158
                                                                                              (197)                                                                                                               437            483
                                                                               (209)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (716)          (566)
                                                                                                                                                            121 378 24
                                                                                       Dynasty                                                  705                                    27 (27)     95
                                                                                                                                                            (39) (925) (161)
                                                                                        Drive                                                  (254)                                   24 (10)    (75)
                                                                                                                                                                                       44 (38)
                                                                                                                                    Evans                                                                   Lowes
                                                                                                                                    Road                                                                   Driveway
                                                                                                                                                          102 (304)
                                                                                                                                                 388                                               136
                                                                                                                                                            28 (49)
                                                                                                                                               (1003)                           560 472 84        (256)
                                                                                                                                                          258 (650)
                                                                                                                                                                               (205) (503) (46)


                                                                                                                                                                  680              1116
                                                                    NOT                                                                                          (1613)            (754)
                                                     N




                                                                    TO
                                                                   SCALE                                                                                        NW Maynard Road
                         N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                                   NOT
                           474               1048
                                             (687)
                                                                                                                                      N            TO
                          (1315)
                                                                                                                                                  SCALE
                        424 50
                       (1100) (215)            36 (105)             45
                                               9 (57)              (162)
                                                                                         Harrison
                                                                                        Pointe Drive
                                                                    61
                                            0 1012 11              (234)
                                           (0) (582) (19)



                                              17 (24)                                                        Grande
                                                                              Harrison Pointe                Heights
                                                                              RIRO Driveway                   Drive
                                        1137 52
                                        (572) (81)                                                    33                56
                                                            SITE                                     (204)             (172)
                                                                      17        23
                                                                     (84)      (35)
                    98 224 114                                          17                       9 1       23             35 (104)
           522                                  151 (53)                                                                                   574
                   (328) (693) (316)                                   (84)                     (87) (1) (116)            537 (686)
          (1127)                                384 (696)                                                                                 (794)
                                                                                  23 (35)                                 2 (4)
                                                29 (120)
  NW                                                                              519 (822)                                                         NE
Maynard                                                                                                                                           Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                                              Road
                    279 (173)                                                                   21 (68)
           626      317 (565)                                                                 464 (784)                                    488
  54                                        40 606 16                                                               1   0 1                         54
          (808)       30 (70)                                                                      2 (1)                                  (910)
                                           (100) (315) (67)                                                        (4) (0) (13)


                                                                                                        5                2
                            283              662                                                       (6)             (14)
                           (883)            (482)
                                                                   St. Charles Place          St. Charles Place Driveway

                                       LEGEND                                                              2012 TRAFFIC VOLUMES WITHOUT SITE
                                                                Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                              RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                          DATE: October 2011
                                XXX = AM Peak Hour
                                                               Commercial Development
                                (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                    FIGURE 7A
                          LEGEND                                               2012 SITE TRIP DISTRIBUTION %                                   NE Maynard Road
                                             Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                     DATE: October 2011                                         15%         15%
 XX%/XX% = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit         RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
                                                                                                                                               (15%)       (20%)
(XX%)/(XX%) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit       Commercial Development
                                                                                        FIGURE 8
                                                                                                                                5%            15%
                                                                                                                               (5%)          (15%)
                                                                                                                    Reedy                                               Shopping
                                                                                                                    Creek                                                Center
                                                                                                                    Road                                                Driveway
                                                                                                                                5%
                                                                                                                               (5%)                      5% 15%
                                                                                                                                          5% (5%)
                                                                                                                                                        (5%) (20%)

                                                                                                                                               20%
                                                                                                                                              (20%)


                                                                                                                    Gregory
                                            Reedy                                                                    Drive
                                            Creek
                                            Road                                                                                                            20%
                                                                                                                                                           (25%)


                                                                          Dynasty                                                                                             Chapel Hill Road
                                                                                                                              Grande Heights
                                                                           Drive                      Harrison                    Drive                                       10%         7%
                                                                    3%           5%                  Pointe Drive                                                             (3%)       (7%)
                                                                   (5%)         (3%)
                                                                                                                                  St. Charles Place




                                                                                                                                                                                                               N Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                       10%
   N Harrison Avenue




                                                                         3%
                        30%                                             (5%)        5% (3%)                                             TAR 324                        (3%)                             20%
                                                30% (17%)                           30% (17%)                                            SITE                                              20% (10%)
                       (17%)                                                                                                                                                                           (10%)
                                                                                    5% (5%)


                                                                                                                                                                       7% (7%)
                        12%                                                                                                                                          10% (15%)                          10%
                       (30%)   12% (30%)                    12% (30%)                 5%                                                                                                 5%
                                                                                                                                                                       3% (3%)                         (15%)
                                                                                     (5%)
                                                                                                                            SEE FIGURE 8A                                               (2%)

                                                                    5%           5%
                                                                   (5%)         (5%)                                                                                           3%          5%
                                                                                                                                                                              (3%)        (2%)
                                                                                                                                            5% 15%
                                                                          Dynasty                                                 5%       (5%) (20%)
                                                                           Drive                                                 (5%)
                                                                                                                     Evans                                              Lowes
                                                                                                                     Road                                              Driveway
                                                                                                                                  5%      5% (5%)
                                                                                                                                 (5%)                        20%
                                                                                                                                                            (20%)


                                                                                                                                                15%         20%
                                                        NOT                                                                                    (20%)       (20%)
                                            N




                                                        TO
                                                       SCALE                                                                                  NW Maynard Road
                       N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                            NOT
                          20%              40%
                                          (25%)
                                                                                                                               N            TO
                         (40%)
                                                                                                                                           SCALE

                               20%
                              (40%)                          15%
                                                            (25%)
                                            15% (25%)
                                                                                    Harrison
                                                                                   Pointe Drive
                                                             20%
                                        20% 40%             (40%)
                                       (25%) (25%)


                                                                                                       Grande
                                           60% (50%)
                                                                         Harrison Pointe               Heights
                                                                         RIRO Driveway                  Drive

                                          70%                                                    5%
                                         (50%)                                                  (5%)
                                                     SITE      20%         10%
                                                              (20%)       (10%)
                   10% 10% 15%                                   20%                                  5%
           20%                               10% (10%)                                                                              20%
                  (15%) (15%) (20%)                             (20%)                                (5%)          20% (20%)
          (25%)                              10% (10%)                                                                             (20%)
                                             10% (10%)                       10% (10%)
  NW                                                                         10% (10%)                                                       NE
Maynard                                                                                                                                    Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                                       Road
                  25% (25%)
           25%                                                                           15% (20%)                                  20%
  54                                          35%                                                                                            54
          (25%)                                                                                                                    (25%)
                                             (15%)



                          20%             35%
                         (25%)           (15%)
                                                            St. Charles Place            St. Charles Place Driveway

                                           LEGEND                                                                2012 SITE TRIP DISTRIBUTION %
                                                                          Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                        RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                   DATE: October 2011
                               XX%/XX% = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit
                                                                         Commercial Development
                              (XX%)/(XX%) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                     FIGURE 8A
                        LEGEND                                                 2012 SITE TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT                                        NE Maynard Road
                                           Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                      DATE: October 2011                                                  3       2
 XX / XX = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit       RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
                                                                                                                                                         (5)     (6)
(XX) / (XX) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit     Commercial Development
                                                                                             FIGURE 9                                               3
                                                                                                                                   1               (5)
                                                                                                                                  (1)
                                                                                                                       Reedy                                             Shopping
                                                                                                                       Creek                                              Center
                                                                                                                       Road                                              Driveway
                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                  (1)            1 (1)          1 2
                                                                                                                                                               (1) (6)

                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                   (6)


                                                                                                                       Gregory
                                            Reedy                                                                       Drive
                                            Creek
                                            Road                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                 (7)


                                                                          Dynasty                                                                                              Chapel Hill Road
                                                                                                                                 Grande Heights
                                                                           Drive
                                                                                                         Harrison                    Drive                                       2           1
                                                                                     1                  Pointe Drive                                                            (1)         (2)
                                                                     0
                                                                    (1)             (1)
                                                                                                                                        St. Charles Place
                                                                                                                                                                          2




                                                                                                                                                                                                              N Harrison Avenue
  N Harrison Avenue




                                                                          0
                       5                                                 (1)         1 (1)                                                 TAR 324                       (1)                             5
                                                5 (5)                                5 (5)                                                  SITE                                                5 (3)
                      (5)                                                                                                                                                                               (3)
                                                                                     1 (1)


                                                                                                                                                                           1 (2)
                       3                                                                                                                                                   2 (4)                         2
                      (9)        3 (9)                          3 (9)                      1                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                           0 (1)                        (4)
                                                                                          (2)
                                                                                                                               SEE FIGURE 9A                                              (0)

                                                                    1                1
                                                                   (1)              (2)                                                                                          0           1
                                                                                                                                                                                (1)         (0)
                                                                                                                                                 1 2
                                                                          Dynasty                                                    1          (2) (6)
                                                                           Drive                                                    (2)
                                                                                                                        Evans                                             Lowes
                                                                                                                        Road                                             Driveway
                                                                                                                                     1            1 (1)
                                                                                                                                    (1)                             5
                                                                                                                                                                   (6)


                                                                                                                                                       2          5
                                                         NOT                                                                                          (6)        (6)
                                            N




                                                         TO
                                                        SCALE                                                                                     NW Maynard Road
                  N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                               NOT
                       4                7
                                       (7)
                                                                                                                                    N          TO
                     (12)
                                                                                                                                              SCALE

                            4
                          (12)                               2
                                                            (8)
                                        2 (8)
                                                                                      Harrison
                                                                                     Pointe Drive
                                                            4
                                       3 7                 (12)
                                      (8) (7)


                                                                                                            Grande
                                       10 (15)
                                                                         Harrison Pointe                    Heights
                                                                         RIRO Driveway                       Drive

                                      16                                                             1
                                     (14)                                                           (1)
                                                    SITE       3            2
                                                              (6)          (3)
                 1 2 2                                             3                                   1
           3                                2 (3)                                                                                        4
                (5) (5) (6)                                       (6)                                 (1)             4 (6)
          (8)                               2 (3)                                                                                       (6)
                                            1 (3)                            2 (3)
  NW                                                                         2 (3)                                                              NE
Maynard                                                                                                                                       Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                                          Road
                  6 (7)
           6                                                                                  2 (6)                                      3
  54                                          8                                                                                                    54
          (7)                                                                                                                           (7)
                                             (4)



                       3               8
                      (8)             (4)
                                                           St. Charles Place              St. Charles Place Driveway

                                      LEGEND                                                                     2012 SITE ASSIGNMENT ­ NEW TRIPS
                                                                          Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                        RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                           DATE: October 2011
                            XX / XX = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit
                                                                         Commercial Development
                          (XX) / (XX) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                               FIGURE 9A-1
                N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                   NOT
                                                                                                                        N          TO
                                                                                                                                  SCALE

                (-10) (10)
                                                         (6)
                                      (6)
                                                                                   Harrison
                                                                                  Pointe Drive
                                                        (10)
                                    (9)



                                                                                                       Grande
                                      (13)
                                                                       Harrison Pointe                 Heights
                                                                       RIRO Driveway                    Drive

                                (-4) (12)
                                                                                                 (1)
                                                 SITE
                                                               (5)       (3)

                                          (2)                                                      (1)
          (2)          (5)                (-2)                  (5)
                                                                           (3)
  NW                                                                       (-3)                                                     NE
Maynard                                                                                                                           Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                              Road
                 (6)
                (-6)                                                                        (-1)
  54                                                                                                                                   54




                                                        St. Charles Place              St. Charles Place Driveway

                                     LEGEND                                                                 2012 SITE ASSIGNMENT ­ PASSBYS
                                                                        Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                      RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                 DATE: October 2011
                        (XX) / (XX) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit          Commercial Development
                                                                                                                   FIGURE 9A-2
                  N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                                   NOT
                       4                  7
                                         (7)
                                                                                                                                        N          TO
                     (12)
                                                                                                                                                  SCALE

                         4
                  (-10) (22)                                 2
                                                            (14)
                                         2 (14)
                                                                                        Harrison
                                                                                       Pointe Drive
                                                             4
                                       3 7                  (22)
                                      (17) (7)


                                                                                                              Grande
                                         10 (28)
                                                                           Harrison Pointe                    Heights
                                                                           RIRO Driveway                       Drive

                                         16                                                            1
                                   (-4) (26)                                                          (2)
                                                     SITE      3              2
                                                              (11)           (3)
                 1 2      2                                         3                                    1
           3                                 2 (5)                                                                                           4
                (7) (5) (11)                                       (11)                                 (2)               4 (6)
          (8)                                2 (1)                                                                                          (6)
                                             1 (3)                             2 (6)
  NW                                                                           2 (0)                                                                NE
Maynard                                                                                                                                           Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                                              Road
                 6 (13)
           6                                                                                    2 (5)                                        3
  54                (-6)                        8                                                                                                      54
          (7)                                                                                                                               (7)
                                               (4)



                       3                8
                      (8)              (4)
                                                            St. Charles Place               St. Charles Place Driveway

                                        LEGEND                                                                          2012 SITE ASSIGNMENT ­ TOTAL
                                                                            Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                          RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                             DATE: October 2011
                            XX / XX = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit
                                                                           Commercial Development
                           (XX) / (XX) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                                  FIGURE 9A-3
                     LEGEND                                                                 2012 TRAFFIC VOLUMES WITH SITE                                          NE Maynard Road
                                                 Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                      DATE: October 2011                                              770              864
XXX = AM Peak Hour                             RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe                                                                                                            (1439)
                                                                                                                                                                    (1067)
(XXX) = PM Peak Hour                            Commercial Development
                                                                                                           FIGURE 10
                                                                                                                                                              322 432 16
                                                                                                                                                 380                                     3 (41)       28
                                                                                                                                                             (180) (843) (44)
                                                                                                                                                (239)                                    14 (22)     (97)
                                                                                                                                      Reedy                                              11 (34)               Shopping
                                                                                                                                      Creek                                                                     Center
                                2012 WITH SITE TRAFFIC = 2012                                                                         Road                                                                     Driveway
                                                                                                                                                             254 (493)
                               SITE TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT + 2012                                                                                     295           5 (38)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       28
                                                                                                                                                 (584)                             44 607 7          (101)
                               WITHOUT SITE TRAFFIC VOLUMES                                                                                                    36 (53)            (37) (905) (19)

                                                                                                                                                              24 346 12
                                                                                                                                                   45        (61) (591) (52)             55 (26)     121
                                                                                                                                                 (139)                                   3 (8)       (62)
                                                                                                                                                                                         63 (28)
                                                                                                                                      Gregory
                                                        Reedy                                                                          Drive
                                                        Creek                                                                                    133            70 (49)                                40
                                                        Road                                                                                     (83)             3 (7)            18 447 25         (142)
                                                                                                                                                                60 (27)           (70) (823) (83)
                                                 504
                                                (172)                                     Dynasty                                                                                                                  Chapel Hill Road
                                                               208                                                                              Grande Heights
                                                              (613)                        Drive                        Harrison                                                                                     521            618
                                                                                                                                                    Drive
                                                                                                                       Pointe Drive                                                                                 (912)          (752)
                                                                                    53               22
                                                                                   (63)             (92)
                                                                                                                                                        St. Charles Place
                                                                                                                                                                                                             100 343 78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N Harrison Avenue
                                                                              17 14 22
 N Harrison Avenue




                                        501 3                                                        9 (47)                                                TAR 324                                          (120) (581) (211)         127 (89)
                      1643                                  11 (16)           (9) (19) (35)                                                                                                                                                        631
                                       (167) (5)                                                     1109 (517)                                             SITE                                                                      416 (309)
                      (649)                                 1142 (482)                                                                                                                                                                            (504)
                                                            0 (0)                                    44 (137)                                                                                                                         88 (106)


                                   197 (597)                                    3 (3)                                                                                                                         64 (133)
                        574                                                                                                                                                                                  192 (617)                             287
                                  377 (1235)                              367 (1172)           92 10 57
                      (1832)                                                                                                                                                                                    6 (30)           40 427 17        (853)
                                                                             16 (54)          (43) (42) (114)
                                                                                                                                          SEE FIGURE 10A                                                                        (11) (530) (25)

                                                                                    74           159
                                                                                                (199)                                                                                                                437            484
                                                                                  (210)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (717)          (566)
                                                                                                                                                               122 380 24
                                                                                          Dynasty                                                  706                                    27 (27)     95
                                                                                                                                                               (41) (931) (161)
                                                                                           Drive                                                  (256)                                   24 (10)    (75)
                                                                                                                                                                                          44 (38)
                                                                                                                                       Evans                                                                   Lowes
                                                                                                                                       Road                                                                   Driveway
                                                                                                                                                             103 (305)
                                                                                                                                                    389                                               136
                                                                                                                                                               28 (49)
                                                                                                                                                  (1004)                           560 477 84        (256)
                                                                                                                                                             258 (650)
                                                                                                                                                                                  (205) (509) (46)


                                                                                                                                                                     682              1121
                                                                       NOT                                                                                          (1619)            (760)
                                                        N




                                                                       TO
                                                                      SCALE                                                                                        NW Maynard Road
                         N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                                  NOT
                           478              1055
                                            (694)
                                                                                                                                     N            TO
                          (1327)
                                                                                                                                                 SCALE
                        424 54
                       (1090) (237)           36 (105)            47
                                              11 (71)            (176)
                                                                                        Harrison
                                                                                       Pointe Drive
                                                                  65
                                          3 1019 11              (256)
                                         (17) (589) (19)


                                             27 (52)                                                         Grande
                                                                            Harrison Pointe
                                                                            RIRO Driveway                    Heights
                                                                                                              Drive
                                        1137 68
                                        (568) (107)                                                   34                56
                                                         SITE                                        (206)             (172)
                                                                    20         25
                                                                   (95)       (41)
                    99 226 116                                        20                        9 1       24             35 (104)
           525                                 153 (58)                                                                                   578
                   (335) (698) (327)                                 (95)                      (87) (0) (118)            541 (692)
          (1135)                               386 (697)                                                                                 (800)
                                                                                 25 (41)                                 2 (4)
                                               30 (123)
  NW                                                                             521 (822)                                                         NE
Maynard                                                                                                                                          Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                                             Road
                    285 (186)                                                                   21 (68)
           632                                                                                                                            491
                    317 (559)                                                                 466 (789)             1 0 1
  54      (815)       30 (70)
                                           40 614 16
                                                                                                   2 (1)
                                                                                                                                         (917)     54
                                          (100) (319) (67)                                                         (4) (0) (10)


                                                                                                        5               2
                            286             670                                                        (6)             (14)
                           (891)           (486)
                                                                St. Charles Place            St. Charles Place Driveway

                                       LEGEND                                                                2012 TRAFFIC VOLUMES WITH SITE
                                                               Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                                   DATE: October 2011
                                XXX = AM Peak Hour           RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
                                                              Commercial Development
                                (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                   FIGURE 10A
             N. Harrison Avenue
                                                                                                                                NOT
                                                                                                                     N          TO
                                                                                                                               SCALE

                     250'
                                         125'

                                                                               Harrison
                                                                              Pointe Drive




                                           DROP
                                125'


                                                                                                                Southbound Left-Turn/
                                                                                                Grande       Through Operates at LOS E
                                                                                                Heights      in 2012 But Does NOT Meet
                                                                    Harrison Pointe
                                                                                                 Drive          Both Peak Hour Signal
                                                                    RIRO Driveway                              Warrants ­ No Mitigation
                                                                                                                   Recommended
                                        200'
                                                   SITE
                                        650'




                                                                                        125'
                                                                                                           125'
          275'      400'
                                        250'                                                               TWLTL
  NW                                                                                                                             NE
Maynard                                                                                                                        Maynard
 Road                                                                                                                           Road
                                                                                       375'
             375'
  54                              75'      300'                                                                                    54
                                                                                      DROP




                                                          St. Charles Place       St. Charles Place Driveway

                           LEGEND                                                              POTENTIAL OPERATIONAL DEFICIENCIES
                                                      Town of Cary TAR 324
                                                                                                       DATE: October 2011
                               Town APFO-
                                                    RBC Bank at Harrison Pointe
                           Identified Deficiency     Commercial Development
                                                                                                          FIGURE 11A
Appendix B ­ Traffic Count Data
                                                                 Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                  6750 Tryon Road
                                                                   Cary, NC 27518
                                                                   (919) 851-1912
                                                                                             File Name           : N. Harrison @ Reedy Creek
Weather: fair & hot                                                                          Site Code           : 00000227
Signal ID: 05-1739                                                                           Start Date          : 6/24/2010
Pedestrians: none                                                                            Page No             :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                     Harrison Avenue            Reedy Creek Road          Harrison Avenue
                       Southbound                  Westbound                Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0     29     8      1      23     0     1      0     0     98     0      2       0       0     0       0              3          159           162
    06:45 AM        0     35     9      4      22     0     1      1     0     60     0      1       0       0     0       0              6          127           133
        Total       0     64    17      5      45     0     2      1     0    158     0      3       0       0     0       0              9          286           295

    07:00 AM        0    44     22      2      26     0      0     0      0    121     0     1       0       0      0      0             3          213            216
    07:15 AM        0    54     15      2      56     0      1     0      1    129     0     0       0       0      0      0             2          256            258
    07:30 AM        0    52     23      1      76     0      0     0      2    216     0     0       0       0      0      0             1          369            370
    07:45 AM        0    92     20      3      92     0      1     0      1    249     0     3       0       0      0      0             6          455            461
        Total       0   242     80      8     250     0      2     0      4    715     0     4       0       0      0      0            12         1293           1305

    08:00 AM        0    98     33      2      97     0      0     0      2    251     0     0       0       0      0      0             2          481            483
    08:15 AM        0   108     19      1     100     0      0     0      1    286     0     2       0       0      0      0             3          514            517
    08:30 AM        0    83     23      0     124     0      0     0      0    275     0     2       0       0      0      0             2          505            507
    08:45 AM        0    72     35      1     104     0      1     0      1    295     0     2       0       0      0      0             3          508            511
        Total       0   361    110      4     425     0      1     0      4   1107     0     6       0       0      0      0            10         2008           2018

     09:00 AM       0     95    30      2     154     0      2     0      2    234     0     0       0       0      0      0              2          517           519
     09:15 AM       0     92    21      2      51     0      1     0      2    188     0     1       0       0      0      0              3          355           358
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0   187     51      4     205     0      3     0      4    422     0     1       0       0      0      0              5          872           877

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM        0   159     46      2      19     0      5     0      4     85     0     0       0       0      0      0              2          318           320
    03:45 PM        0   158     38      0      44     0      1     1      3     95     0     1       0       0      0      0              2          339           341
        Total       0   317     84      2      63     0      6     1      7    180     0     1       0       0      0      0              4          657           661

    04:00 PM        0   192     61      2      24     0      1     0      2    109     0     2       0       0      0      0             4          389            393
    04:15 PM        0   272     87      1      31     0      5     0      1    105     0     3       0       0      0      0             4          501            505
    04:30 PM        0   236     94      4      28     0      1     0      4    122     0     1       0       0      0      0             5          485            490
    04:45 PM        0   258     85      1      28     0      2     0      0    130     0     0       0       0      0      0             1          503            504
        Total       0   958    327      8     111     0      9     0      7    466     0     6       0       0      0      0            14         1878           1892

    05:00 PM        0    304   104      0      20     0      1     0      1     99     0     1       0       0      0      0              1         529            530
    05:15 PM        0    304   156      1      44     0      3     0      0    118     0     0       0       0      0      0              1         625            626
    05:30 PM        0    326   138      1      37     0      0     0      5    107     0     1       0       0      0      0              2         613            615
    05:45 PM        0    266   168      0      40     0      0     1      4    126     0     0       0       0      0      0              1         604            605
        Total       0   1200   566      2     141     0      4     1     10    450     0     2       0       0      0      0              5        2371           2376

   06:00 PM         0    276    112     0      40     0      2     0      6    104     0     0       0       0      0      0             0         540            540
   06:15 PM         0    241     96     1      24     0      3     0      9    101     0     1       0       0      0      0             2         474            476
 Grand Total        0   3846   1443    34    1304     0     32     3     51   3703     0    24       0       0      0      0            61       10379          10440
  Apprch %          0   72.7   27.3          97.6     0    2.4          1.4   98.6     0             0       0      0
     Total %        0   37.1   13.9          12.6     0    0.3          0.5   35.7     0             0       0      0                  0.6          99.4
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                               343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                      Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection: Harrison Ave - RI/RO AM                                                          File Name          : Harrison Ave - RIRO AM Peak
Date: 11-30-2010                                                                               Site Code          : 00000000
Counters: TT                                                                                   Start Date         : 11/30/2010
Weather: Clear                                                                                 Page No            :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                  SHOP CENTER                         SHOP CENTER                     HARRISON AVE                         HARRISON AVE
                       Eastbound                           Westbound                       Northbound                          Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 06:30 AM        0     0     0    0           0      0     0     1    0         1    0    84     8    0        92         0     0     0    0           0         93
 06:45 AM        0     0     0    0           0      0     0     1    0         1    0 117       7    0       124         0     0     0    0           0        125
      Total      0     0     0    0           0      0     0     2    0         2    0 201      15    0       216         0     0     0    0           0        218

 07:00 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       4    0     4     0   150       3    0      153         0    0     0     0           0      157
 07:15 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       2    0     2     0   210      10    0      220         0    0     0     0           0      222
 07:30 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       3    0     3     0   292      13    0      305         0    0     0     0           0      308
 07:45 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       4    0     4     0   299      12    0      311         0    0     0     0           0      315
      Total      0    0     0     0           0      0     0      13    0    13     0   951      38    0      989         0    0     0     0           0     1002

 08:00 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       3    0     3     0   209      11    0     220          0    0     0     0           0      223
 08:15 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       6    0     6     0   283      14    0     297          0    0     0     0           0      303
 08:30 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       9    0     9     0   241      10    0     251          0    0     0     0           0      260
 08:45 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       4    0     4     0   229      12    0     241          0    0     0     0           0      245
      Total      0    0     0     0           0      0     0      22    0    22     0   962      47    0    1009          0    0     0     0           0     1031

 09:00 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0        4   0     4     0   184       15   0     199          0    0     0     0           0      203
 09:15 AM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0        4   0     4     0   136        9   0     145          0    0     0     0           0      149
 Grand Total     0    0     0     0           0      0     0       45   0    45     0   2434    124    0    2558          0    0     0     0           0     2603
 Apprch %        0    0     0     0                  0     0     100    0           0   95.2     4.8   0                  0    0     0     0
  Total %        0    0     0     0           0      0     0      1.7   0    1.7    0   93.5     4.8   0     98.3         0    0     0     0           0
     Cars        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       44   0     44    0   2379    122    0    2501          0    0     0     0           0     2545
   % Cars        0    0     0     0           0      0     0    97.8    0   97.8    0   97.7   98.4    0     97.8         0    0     0     0           0      97.8
   Trucks        0    0     0     0           0      0     0        1   0      1    0     55       2   0       57         0    0     0     0           0        58
 % Trucks        0    0     0     0           0      0     0      2.2   0    2.2    0    2.3     1.6   0      2.2         0    0     0     0           0       2.2
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                               343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                      Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection: Harrison Ave-RIRO PM                                                             File Name          : Harrison Ave - RIRO PM Peak
Date: 11-30-2010                                                                               Site Code          : 00000000
Counters: TT                                                                                   Start Date         : 11/30/2010
Weather: Clear                                                                                 Page No            :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Trucks
                  SHOP CENTER                         SHOP CENTER                     HARRISON AVE                         HARRISON AVE
                       Eastbound                           Westbound                       Northbound                          Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 03:30 PM        0     0     0    0           0      0     0     4    0         4    0 133      15    0       148         0     0     0    0           0        152
 03:45 PM        0     0     0    0           0      0     0     4    0         4    0 137      19    0       156         0     0     0    0           0        160
      Total      0     0     0    0           0      0     0     8    0         8    0 270      34    0       304         0     0     0    0           0        312

 04:00 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       5    0     5     0   105      21    0      126         0    0     0     0           0        131
 04:15 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       5    0     5     0   129      14    0      143         0    0     0     0           0        148
 04:30 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       6    0     6     0   105      25    0      130         0    0     0     0           0        136
 04:45 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       5    0     5     0   148      19    0      167         0    0     0     0           0        172
      Total      0    0     0     0           0      0     0      21    0    21     0   487      79    0      566         0    0     0     0           0        587

 05:00 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       5    0     5     0   136      19    0      155         0    0     0     0           0        160
 05:15 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       4    0     4     0   124      23    0      147         0    0     0     0           0        151
 05:30 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       9    0     9     0   126      17    0      143         0    0     0     0           0        152
 05:45 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       6    0     6     0   117      14    0      131         0    0     0     0           0        137
      Total      0    0     0     0           0      0     0      24    0    24     0   503      73    0      576         0    0     0     0           0        600

 06:00 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0        2   0     2     0   122       15   0     137          0    0     0     0           0      139
 06:15 PM        0    0     0     0           0      0     0        9   0     9     0   131       14   0     145          0    0     0     0           0      154
 Grand Total     0    0     0     0           0      0     0       64   0    64     0   1513    215    0    1728          0    0     0     0           0     1792
 Apprch %        0    0     0     0                  0     0     100    0           0   87.6   12.4    0                  0    0     0     0
  Total %        0    0     0     0           0      0     0      3.6   0    3.6    0   84.4      12   0     96.4         0    0     0     0           0
     Cars        0    0     0     0           0      0     0       64   0     64    0   1479    212    0    1691          0    0     0     0           0     1755
   % Cars        0    0     0     0           0      0     0     100    0   100     0   97.8   98.6    0     97.9         0    0     0     0           0      97.9
   Trucks        0    0     0     0           0      0     0        0   0      0    0     34       3   0       37         0    0     0     0           0        37
 % Trucks        0    0     0     0           0      0     0        0   0      0    0    2.2     1.4   0      2.1         0    0     0     0           0       2.1
                                                                  Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                   6750 Tryon Road
                                                                    Cary, NC 27518
                                                                    (919) 851-1912
                                                                                        File Name          : N Harrison Ave @ Chapel Hill Rd
Weather: hot & rainy                                                                    Site Code          : 00000231
Signal ID: 05-0300                                                                      Start Date         : 6/29/2010
Pedestrians: none                                                                       Page No            :1


                                                              Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                     Harrison Avenue             Chapel Hill Road           Harrison Avenue             Chapel Hill Road
                       Southbound                  Westbound                  Northbound                  Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru     Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru     Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0     18     6      1      11    51       6      0    12     26     7      1       1    27       2      0            2           167           169
    06:45 AM        0     24    21      1      14    70      11      0    26     48    10      3       2    66       0      7           11           292           303
        Total       0     42    27      2      25   121      17      0    38     74    17      4       3    93       2      7           13           459           472

    07:00 AM        0    31      7      2      19    65      7      3     23     48    11      3       1     63      1      0            8          276            284
    07:15 AM        2    37     11      3      16    60     11      1     29     88    13      3       2     97      0      2            9          366            375
    07:30 AM        1    23     14      1      24    67     13      2     34     82    18      1       4    115      0      2            6          395            401
    07:45 AM        1    55     14      2      22    76     19      1     33     99    19      3       7    113     18      0            6          476            482
        Total       4   146     46      8      81   268     50      7    119    317    61     10      14    388     19      4           29         1513           1542

    08:00 AM        1    47     19      1      25    79     15      3     38    111    22      3       3     98      2      1            8          460            468
    08:15 AM        2    25     10      3      21    79     21      8     28     74    28      3       2    105      7      4           18          402            420
    08:30 AM        2    55     17      3      24    96     20      3     23    109    16      4       4     95     10      0           10          471            481
    08:45 AM        2    53     17      2      26    92     22      5     24    111    14      1       7     90      1      2           10          459            469
        Total       7   180     63      9      96   346     78     19    113    405    80     11      16    388     20      7           46         1792           1838

     09:00 AM       3     71    18      4      26     59    12      5     31     66    10      6       9     75      1      3           18           381           399
     09:15 AM       0     63    19      2      18     63    21      5     26     66    10      4      14     88      1      2           13           389           402
*** BREAK ***
         Total      3   134     37      6      44   122     33     10     57    132    20     10      23    163      2      5           31           770           801

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM        4    75     16      2      17    75     27      2     14     72    20      1       7     80      5      6           11           412           423
    03:45 PM        4    94     27      1      22    89     29      3     16     85    21      2      18     87      2      0            6           494           500
        Total       8   169     43      3      39   164     56      5     30    157    41      3      25    167      7      6           17           906           923

    04:00 PM        2    98     13      1      30    83     36      4      7     37    24      1       9     92      5      4           10          436            446
    04:15 PM        4   102     19      1      19    73     26      0     18     71    29      1      15     89      0      3            5          465            470
    04:30 PM        3    94     25      2      21    98     43      3     14     59     9      2      13     95      2      0            7          476            483
    04:45 PM        4   115     37      3      23    95     55      2     25     62    14      2      20    111      2      0            7          563            570
        Total      13   409     94      7      93   349    160      9     64    229    76      6      57    387      9      7           29         1940           1969

    05:00 PM        1   121     23      0      32   109     58      2     14     68    22      2       1    121      0      0            4          570            574
    05:15 PM        5   195     37      3      26   145     35      1     21     80    28      2       2    139      3      2            8          716            724
    05:30 PM       14   132     28      2      25   129     79      0     24     70    19      2       5    155      3      3            7          683            690
    05:45 PM        3   140     40      3      36   154     45      5     23     68    21      2       4    118      3      2           12          655            667
        Total      23   588    128      8     119   537    217      8     82    286    90      8      12    533      9      7           31         2624           2655

   06:00 PM         5    120     20     1      26    131     44     0     18     75     34     1      13      98     1      0           2          585            587
   06:15 PM         4    118     17     1      22    130     33     1     19     62     18     1      11     123     3      0           3          560            563
 Grand Total       67   1906    475    45     545   2168    688    59    540   1737    437    54     174    2340    72     43         201        11149          11350
  Apprch %        2.7   77.9   19.4            16   63.7   20.2         19.9     64   16.1           6.7    90.5   2.8
     Total %      0.6   17.1    4.3           4.9   19.4    6.2          4.8   15.6    3.9           1.6      21   0.6                 1.8          98.2
                                                                 Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                  6750 Tryon Road
                                                                   Cary, NC 27518
                                                                   (919) 851-1912
                                                                                File Name         : N Harrison Ave @ Grande Heights Dr
Weather: partly cloudy                                                          Site Code         : 00000230
Signal ID: none                                                                 Start Date        : 6/29/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                            Page No           :1


                                                                 Groups Printed- Peds
                     Harrison Avenue          Grande Heights Drive       Harrison Avenue
                       Southbound                  Westbound                Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru  Left Trucks Right Thru     Left Trucks   Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0      0     0      0       0     1     0      0     0     0      0      0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1
    06:45 AM        0      0     0      0       0     1     0      0     0     0      0      0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1
        Total       0      0     0      0       0     2     0      0     0     0      0      0       0       0     0       0              0              2             2

*** BREAK ***
     07:15 AM       0      0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0      0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1

*** BREAK ***
     08:45 AM       0      0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1
         Total      0      0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1

*** BREAK ***

     03:30 PM       0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1

*** BREAK ***
     04:30 PM       0      0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0      0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0       0     0       0              0              1             1

*** BREAK ***

 Grand Total        0      0      0     0       0      5     0     0      0      1     0     0       0       0     0       0              0              6             6
  Apprch %          0      0      0             0    100     0            0    100     0             0       0     0
    Total %         0      0      0             0   83.3     0            0   16.7     0             0       0     0                      0          100
                                                                 Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                  6750 Tryon Road
                                                                   Cary, NC 27518
                                                                   (919) 851-1912
                                                                                 File Name        : N Harrison Ave @ Grande Heights Dr
Weather: partly cloudy                                                           Site Code        : 00000230
Signal ID: none                                                                  Start Date       : 6/29/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                             Page No          :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                     Harrison Avenue          Grande Heights Drive       Harrison Avenue
                       Southbound                  Westbound               Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru  Left Trucks Right Thru     Left Trucks   Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0      0     0      0       0     0     0      0     1    67      0      1       0       0     0       0              1           68            69
    06:45 AM        0      0     0      0       0     0     0      0     3   107      0      0       0       0     0       0              0          110           110
        Total       0      0     0      0       0     0     0      0     4   174      0      1       0       0     0       0              1          178           179

    07:00 AM        0      0      0     0       2     0      0     0      2    110     0     0       0       0     0       0              0          114           114
    07:15 AM        0      0      0     0       8     0      0     0      3    157     0     3       0       0     0       0              3          168           171
    07:30 AM        0      0      0     0      10     0      0     0      2    182     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          194           195
    07:45 AM        0      0      0     0       9     0      0     0      6    214     0     0       0       0     0       0              0          229           229
        Total       0      0      0     0      29     0      0     0     13    663     0     4       0       0     0       0              4          705           709

    08:00 AM        0      0      0     0      11     0      0     0      2    210     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          223           224
    08:15 AM        0      0      0     0       9     0      0     0      3    237     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          249           250
    08:30 AM        0      0      0     0       7     0      0     0      3    233     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          243           244
    08:45 AM        0      0      0     0       7     0      0     0      1    243     0     0       0       0     0       0              0          251           251
        Total       0      0      0     0      34     0      0     0      9    923     0     3       0       0     0       0              3          966           969

     09:00 AM       0      0      0     0       7     0      0     0      1    192     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          200           201
     09:15 AM       0      0      0     0       5     0      0     0      4    125     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          134           135
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0      0      0     0      12     0      0     0      5    317     0     2       0       0     0       0              2          334           336

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM        0      0      0     0       4     0      0     0      8    109     0     0       0       0     0       0              0          121           121
    03:45 PM        0      0      0     0      12     0      0     0      5    102     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          119           120
        Total       0      0      0     0      16     0      0     0     13    211     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          240           241

    04:00 PM        0      0      0     0      12     0      0     0      7    118     0     0       0       0     0       0              0          137           137
    04:15 PM        0      0      0     0      11     0      0     0     16     97     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          124           125
    04:30 PM        0      0      0     0      11     0      0     0     12    112     0     0       0       0     0       0              0          135           135
    04:45 PM        0      0      0     0      18     0      0     0      8    130     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          156           157
        Total       0      0      0     0      52     0      0     0     43    457     0     2       0       0     0       0              2          552           554

    05:00 PM        0      0      0     0      13     0      0     0     13    118     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          144           145
    05:15 PM        0      0      0     0       9     0      0     0      7    110     0     1       0       0     0       0              1          126           127
    05:30 PM        0      0      0     0      10     0      0     0      9    126     0     0       0       0     0       0              0          145           145
    05:45 PM        0      0      0     0      20     0      0     0     12    138     0     0       0       0     0       0              0          170           170
        Total       0      0      0     0      52     0      0     0     41    492     0     2       0       0     0       0              2          585           587

   06:00 PM         0      0      0     0      16     0      0     0      7    124     0     0       0       0     0       0             0          147            147
   06:15 PM         0      0      0     0      14     0      0     0     11    140     0     1       0       0     0       0             1          165            166
 Grand Total        0      0      0     0     225     0      0     0    146   3501     0    16       0       0     0       0            16         3872           3888
  Apprch %          0      0      0           100     0      0            4     96     0             0       0     0
     Total %        0      0      0           5.8     0      0          3.8   90.4     0             0       0     0                   0.4          99.6
                                                                   Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                    6750 Tryon Road
                                                                     Cary, NC 27518
                                                                     (919) 851-1912
                                                                                                    File Name      : N. Harrison @ Dynasty Dr.
Weather: fair & hot                                                                                 Site Code      : 00000228
Signal ID: 05-1290                                                                                  Start Date     : 6/23/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                                Page No        :1


                                                              Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                    N. Harrison Avenue             Dynasty Drive          N. Harrison Avenue              Dynasty Drive
                        Southbound                  Westbound                 Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru     Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru     Left Trucks    Right Thru   Left    Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM         0    33      0      0       2     1      1     0      0    77      4      4        3     0    17        0              4          138           142
    06:45 AM         4    43      0      1       1     0      3     0      0    99      1      0       10     3    12        0              1          176           177
        Total        4    76      0      1       3     1      4     0      0   176      5      4       13     3    29        0              5          314           319

    07:00 AM        2     61      0      3       1     4      4     0      1    104      4     1       10     2     10       0             4          203            207
    07:15 AM        3     42      1      1       5     1      3     0      0    148      6     0       11     1     14       0             1          235            236
    07:30 AM        6     62      1      2       0     2      8     0      3    178     10     1       13     5     27       0             3          315            318
    07:45 AM        8     53      1      1       9     2      4     0      1    238      8     2       20     5     34       0             3          383            386
        Total      19    218      3      7      15     9     19     0      5    668     28     4       54    13     85       0            11         1136           1147

    08:00 AM        4     79      2      1       5     3      5     0      3    257     14     3       13     3     25       0             4          413            417
    08:15 AM        5     82      0      1       2     3     11     0      0    288      7     1       12     4     22       0             2          436            438
    08:30 AM        2     95      0      3       3     4      4     0      2    238     12     3       16     2     20       0             6          398            404
    08:45 AM        4     92      1      0       6     3      1     0      3    276      7     1       12     1     21       0             1          427            428
        Total      15    348      3      5      16    13     21     0      8   1059     40     8       53    10     88       0            13         1674           1687

     09:00 AM       4    121      0      1       2     1      3     0      1    224      7     2       16     0     19       1              4          398           402
     09:15 AM       7    119      1      5       2     2      3     0      1    138      7     0        9     6     13       0              5          308           313
*** BREAK ***
         Total     11    240      1      6       4     3      6     0      2    362     14     2       25     6     32       1              9          706           715

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM        6    136      4      0       1     2      3     0      4     99     14     0       17     5      8       0              0          299           299
    03:45 PM       10    150      1      1       1     3      7     0      6    122     12     1       17     3     12       0              2          344           346
        Total      16    286      5      1       2     5     10     0     10    221     26     1       34     8     20       0              2          643           645

    04:00 PM       11    197      2      1       3     1      3     0      5    100     13     0       11     6     12       0              1         364            365
    04:15 PM       12    224      3      1       1     2      4     0      4    114     16     3       12     3     10       0              4         405            409
    04:30 PM        5    215      6      0       1     1      4     0     11     91     25     0        9    13      6       0              0         387            387
    04:45 PM       10    196      5      0       1     4      4     0      9    146     23     0       22     8     14       0              0         442            442
        Total      38    832     16      2       6     8     15     0     29    451     77     3       54    30     42       0              5        1598           1603

    05:00 PM        8    268      2      0       0     5      2     0     11    119     32     0       16     7      7       0              0         477            477
    05:15 PM        8    305      1      0       4     7      4     0     11    135     27     0       28     8      9       0              0         547            547
    05:30 PM       19    265      1      1       0     4     12     0      7    106     32     0       25    10      5       0              1         486            487
    05:45 PM        9    269      1      1       1     3     11     0     12    124     38     1       31    10     11       0              2         520            522
        Total      44   1107      5      2       5    19     29     0     41    484    129     1      100    35     32       0              3        2030           2033

   06:00 PM        16    273      0      1       4      4      5    0     13    123     33     1       23     12     16      0             2          522            524
   06:15 PM        19    263      4      0       1      1      4    0     10    104     44     0       22     10     15      0             0          497            497
 Grand Total      182   3643     37     25      56     63    113    0    118   3648    396    24      378    127    359      1            50         9120           9170
  Apprch %        4.7   94.3      1           24.1   27.2   48.7         2.8   87.7    9.5           43.8   14.7   41.6
     Total %        2   39.9    0.4            0.6    0.7    1.2         1.3     40    4.3            4.1    1.4    3.9                  0.5          99.5
                                                                   Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                     6750 Tryon Road
                                                                      Cary, NC 27518
                                                                      (919) 851-1912
                                                                                                       File Name      : N. Harrison @ Dynasty Dr.
Weather: fair & hot                                                                                    Site Code      : 00000228
Signal ID: 05-1290                                                                                     Start Date     : 6/23/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                                   Page No        :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Peds
                    N. Harrison Avenue             Dynasty Drive             N. Harrison Avenue              Dynasty Drive
                        Southbound                  Westbound                    Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru     Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left    Trucks Right   Thru   Left Trucks    Right Thru   Left    Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM         0      0     0      0       0     0      0        0      0      0     0      0        0     1      0       0              0              1             1
    06:45 AM         0      0     0      0       0     0      0        0      0      3     0      0        0     1      0       0              0              4             4
        Total        0      0     0      0       0     0      0        0      0      3     0      0        0     2      0       0              0              5             5

    07:00 AM        0      1      0      0       0     0     0        0      0      0      0      0        0     0      0       0              0             1             1
    07:15 AM        0      2      0      0       0     2     0        0      0      0      0      0        0     0      0       0              0             4             4
    07:30 AM        0      0      0      0       0     1     0        0      0      0      0      0        0     0      0       0              0             1             1
    07:45 AM        0      2      0      0       0     0     0        0      0      2      0      0        0     3      0       0              0             7             7
        Total       0      5      0      0       0     3     0        0      0      2      0      0        0     3      0       0              0            13            13

     08:00 AM       0      0      0      0       0     1     0        0      0      0      0      0        0     0      0       0              0              1             1
     08:15 AM       0      1      0      0       0     2     0        0      0      0      0      0        0     0      0       0              0              3             3
     08:30 AM       0      1      0      0       0     0     0        0      0      0      0      0        0     0      0       0              0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0      2      0      0       0     3     0        0      0      0      0      0        0     0      0       0              0              5             5

*** BREAK ***

   06:00 PM         0      1      0      0       0      1    0        0      0      0      0      0        0      0     0       0              0             2             2
   06:15 PM         0      1      0      0       0      0    0        0      0      0      0      0        0      1     0       0              0             2             2
 Grand Total        0      9      0      0       0      7    0        0      0      5      0      0        0      6     0       0              0            27            27
  Apprch %          0    100      0              0    100    0               0    100      0               0    100     0
     Total %        0   33.3      0              0   25.9    0               0   18.5      0               0   22.2     0                      0          100
                                                                Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                  6750 Tryon Road
                                                                   Cary, NC 27518
                                                                   (919) 851-1912
                                                                                            File Name         : N. Harrison @ Harrison Pointe
Weather: clear & hot                                                                        Site Code         : 00000229
Signal ID: not posted                                                                       Start Date        : 6/24/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                        Page No           :1


                                                                 Groups Printed- Peds

                      Southbound                  Westbound                   Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru  Left   Trucks   RightThru  Left    Trucks   Right Thru  Left   Trucks   Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0     0    0       0        0    0    0        0        0     0    0       0        0       3     0       0              0              3             3
    06:45 AM        0     0    0       0        0    2    0        0        0     0    0       0        0       0     0       0              0              2             2
        Total       0     0    0       0        0    2    0        0        0     0    0       0        0       3     0       0              0              5             5

*** BREAK ***
     07:15 AM       0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       1     0       0              0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
     07:45 AM       0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       2     0       0              0              2             2
         Total      0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       3     0       0              0              3             3

     08:00 AM       0    0     0       0        0      1    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       0     0       0              0              1             1
     08:15 AM       0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       1     0       0              0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
     08:45 AM       0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       1     0       0              0              1             1
         Total      0    0     0       0        0      1    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       2     0       0              0              3             3

*** BREAK ***

    03:45 PM        0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       1     0       0              0              1             1
        Total       0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       1     0       0              0              1             1

*** BREAK ***
     04:30 PM       0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       1     0       0              0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0    0     0       0        0      0    0      0        0    0      0      0        0       1     0       0              0              1             1

*** BREAK ***

   06:15 PM         0    0     0       0        0       0   0      0        0    0      0      0        0       1     0       0              0             1             1
 Grand Total        0    0     0       0        0       3   0      0        0    0      0      0        0      11     0       0              0            14            14
  Apprch %          0    0     0                0     100   0               0    0      0               0     100     0
     Total %        0    0     0                0    21.4   0               0    0      0               0    78.6     0                      0          100
                                                                  Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                    6750 Tryon Road
                                                                     Cary, NC 27518
                                                                     (919) 851-1912
                                                                                             File Name       : N. Harrison @ Harrison Pointe
Weather: clear & hot                                                                         Site Code       : 00000229
Signal ID: not posted                                                                        Start Date      : 6/24/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                         Page No         :1


                                                              Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                    N. Harrison Avenue         Harrison Pointe Drive      N. Harrison Avenue
                        Southbound                  Westbound                 Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru     Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru     Left Trucks   Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM         0    40      3      1       3     0      1      0     0    79      0      2       0       0     0       0              3          126           129
    06:45 AM         0    48      1      3       4     0      0      0     0   101      0      1       0       0     0       0              4          154           158
        Total        0    88      4      4       7     0      1      0     0   180      0      3       0       0     0       0              7          280           287

    07:00 AM        0     61      6      3       5     0      0     0      0     102     0     1       0       0     0       0             4           174           178
    07:15 AM        0     65     11      1       3     0      1     1      0     141     0     1       0       0     0       0             3           221           224
    07:30 AM        0     56      9      1      10     0      1     0      1     191     0     1       0       0     0       0             2           268           270
    07:45 AM        0     84      9      3       7     0      0     0      3     219     0     2       0       0     0       0             5           322           327
        Total       0    266     35      8      25     0      2     1      4     653     0     5       0       0     0       0            14           985           999

    08:00 AM        0    103     12      2      12     0      0     0      3     206     0     2       0       0     0       0             4          336            340
    08:15 AM        0    116     10      0       7     0      1     0      1     252     0     1       0       0     0       0             1          387            388
    08:30 AM        0    105      7      0       3     0      3     0      0     254     0     2       0       0     0       0             2          372            374
    08:45 AM        0     84     16      1      11     0      1     0      3     259     0     2       0       0     0       0             3          374            377
        Total       0    408     45      3      33     0      5     0      7     971     0     7       0       0     0       0            10         1469           1479

     09:00 AM       0     99      8      2       1     0      2     0      1     193     0     1       0       0     0       0              3          304           307
     09:15 AM       0    106     22      1       6     0      0     0      4     180     0     0       0       0     0       0              1          318           319
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0    205     30      3       7     0      2     0      5     373     0     1       0       0     0       0              4          622           626

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM        0    135     23      1       6     0      4     0      2     106     3     0       0       0     0       0              1          279           280
    03:45 PM        0    142     32      2      14     0      4     0      1     103     1     1       0       0     0       0              3          297           300
        Total       0    277     55      3      20     0      8     0      3     209     4     1       0       0     0       0              4          576           580

    04:00 PM        0    178     23      1       8     0      7     0      0     118     0     2       0       0     0       0             3          334            337
    04:15 PM        0    255     44      0      10     0      4     0      1     120     0     3       0       0     0       0             3          434            437
    04:30 PM        0    219     36      1       9     0      7     1      2     131     0     1       0       0     0       0             3          404            407
    04:45 PM        0    234     32      1      18     0     11     0      2     123     0     0       0       0     0       0             1          420            421
        Total       0    886    135      3      45     0     29     1      5     492     0     6       0       0     0       0            10         1592           1602

    05:00 PM        0    253     49      0       7     0      7     0      0     134     0     1       0       0     0       0              1         450            451
    05:15 PM        0    291     44      1      27     0      6     0      1     143     0     0       0       0     0       0              1         512            513
    05:30 PM        0    287     51      1      16     0     10     0      2     151     0     1       0       0     0       0              2         517            519
    05:45 PM        0    240     42      0      24     0      9     0      6     137     0     0       0       0     0       0              0         458            458
        Total       0   1071    186      2      74     0     32     0      9     565     0     2       0       0     0       0              4        1937           1941

   06:00 PM         0    246     54      0      28     0     10     0       2    130     0     0       0       0     0       0             0          470            470
   06:15 PM         0    223     42      1      20     0     14     0       5    132     0     1       0       0     0       0             2          436            438
 Grand Total        0   3670    586     27     259     0    103     2      40   3705     4    26       0       0     0       0            55         8367           8422
  Apprch %          0   86.2   13.8           71.5     0   28.5           1.1   98.8   0.1             0       0     0
     Total %        0   43.9      7            3.1     0    1.2           0.5   44.3     0             0       0     0                   0.7          99.3
                                                                 Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                  6750 Tryon Road
                                                                   Cary, NC 27518
                                                                   (919) 851-1912
                                                                                             File Name           : N. Harrison @ Reedy Creek
Weather: fair & hot                                                                          Site Code           : 00000227
Signal ID: 05-1739                                                                           Start Date          : 6/24/2010
Pedestrians: none                                                                            Page No             :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                     Harrison Avenue            Reedy Creek Road          Harrison Avenue
                       Southbound                  Westbound                Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0     29     8      1      23     0     1      0     0     98     0      2       0       0     0       0              3          159           162
    06:45 AM        0     35     9      4      22     0     1      1     0     60     0      1       0       0     0       0              6          127           133
        Total       0     64    17      5      45     0     2      1     0    158     0      3       0       0     0       0              9          286           295

    07:00 AM        0    44     22      2      26     0      0     0      0    121     0     1       0       0      0      0             3          213            216
    07:15 AM        0    54     15      2      56     0      1     0      1    129     0     0       0       0      0      0             2          256            258
    07:30 AM        0    52     23      1      76     0      0     0      2    216     0     0       0       0      0      0             1          369            370
    07:45 AM        0    92     20      3      92     0      1     0      1    249     0     3       0       0      0      0             6          455            461
        Total       0   242     80      8     250     0      2     0      4    715     0     4       0       0      0      0            12         1293           1305

    08:00 AM        0    98     33      2      97     0      0     0      2    251     0     0       0       0      0      0             2          481            483
    08:15 AM        0   108     19      1     100     0      0     0      1    286     0     2       0       0      0      0             3          514            517
    08:30 AM        0    83     23      0     124     0      0     0      0    275     0     2       0       0      0      0             2          505            507
    08:45 AM        0    72     35      1     104     0      1     0      1    295     0     2       0       0      0      0             3          508            511
        Total       0   361    110      4     425     0      1     0      4   1107     0     6       0       0      0      0            10         2008           2018

     09:00 AM       0     95    30      2     154     0      2     0      2    234     0     0       0       0      0      0              2          517           519
     09:15 AM       0     92    21      2      51     0      1     0      2    188     0     1       0       0      0      0              3          355           358
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0   187     51      4     205     0      3     0      4    422     0     1       0       0      0      0              5          872           877

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM        0   159     46      2      19     0      5     0      4     85     0     0       0       0      0      0              2          318           320
    03:45 PM        0   158     38      0      44     0      1     1      3     95     0     1       0       0      0      0              2          339           341
        Total       0   317     84      2      63     0      6     1      7    180     0     1       0       0      0      0              4          657           661

    04:00 PM        0   192     61      2      24     0      1     0      2    109     0     2       0       0      0      0             4          389            393
    04:15 PM        0   272     87      1      31     0      5     0      1    105     0     3       0       0      0      0             4          501            505
    04:30 PM        0   236     94      4      28     0      1     0      4    122     0     1       0       0      0      0             5          485            490
    04:45 PM        0   258     85      1      28     0      2     0      0    130     0     0       0       0      0      0             1          503            504
        Total       0   958    327      8     111     0      9     0      7    466     0     6       0       0      0      0            14         1878           1892

    05:00 PM        0    304   104      0      20     0      1     0      1     99     0     1       0       0      0      0              1         529            530
    05:15 PM        0    304   156      1      44     0      3     0      0    118     0     0       0       0      0      0              1         625            626
    05:30 PM        0    326   138      1      37     0      0     0      5    107     0     1       0       0      0      0              2         613            615
    05:45 PM        0    266   168      0      40     0      0     1      4    126     0     0       0       0      0      0              1         604            605
        Total       0   1200   566      2     141     0      4     1     10    450     0     2       0       0      0      0              5        2371           2376

   06:00 PM         0    276    112     0      40     0      2     0      6    104     0     0       0       0      0      0             0         540            540
   06:15 PM         0    241     96     1      24     0      3     0      9    101     0     1       0       0      0      0             2         474            476
 Grand Total        0   3846   1443    34    1304     0     32     3     51   3703     0    24       0       0      0      0            61       10379          10440
  Apprch %          0   72.7   27.3          97.6     0    2.4          1.4   98.6     0             0       0      0
     Total %        0   37.1   13.9          12.6     0    0.3          0.5   35.7     0             0       0      0                  0.6          99.4
                                                                Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
                                                                  (919) 851-1912
                                                                                    File Name      : NE Maynard @ Grande Heights Dr
Weather: hot & rainy                                                                Site Code      : 00000224
Signal ID: none                                                                     Start Date     : 6/30/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                Page No        :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Peds
                  Grande Heights Drive           Maynard Road         Grande Heights Drive            Maynard Road
                       Southbound                 Westbound                Northbound                  Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru   Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0     0     0      0       0     0     0      0     0     3      0      0       0     0     0      0             0              3             3
    06:45 AM        0     3     0      0       0     0     0      0     0     1      0      0       0     0     0      0             0              4             4
        Total       0     3     0      0       0     0     0      0     0     4      0      0       0     0     0      0             0              7             7

     07:00 AM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     4      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              4             4
*** BREAK ***
     07:45 AM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
         Total      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     5      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              5             5

*** BREAK ***
     08:15 AM       0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              2             2
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              2             2

     09:00 AM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1

*** BREAK ***

    03:45 PM        0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     2      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              2             2
        Total       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     2      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              2             2

     04:00 PM       0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     2      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              3             3
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     2      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              3             3

    05:00 PM        0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              2             2
    05:15 PM        0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
    05:30 PM        0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
    05:45 PM        0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
        Total       0     1      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     3      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              5             5

     06:00 PM       0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
  Grand Total       0      6     0     0       0     2      0     0      0     18     0     0       0     0      0     0             0            26            26
    Apprch %        0    100     0             0   100      0            0    100     0             0     0      0
       Total %      0   23.1     0             0   7.7      0            0   69.2     0             0     0      0                   0          100
                                                                Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
                                                                  (919) 851-1912
                                                                                    File Name      : NE Maynard @ Grande Heights Dr
Weather: hot & rainy                                                                Site Code      : 00000224
Signal ID: none                                                                     Start Date     : 6/30/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                Page No        :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                  Grande Heights Drive           Maynard Road         Grande Heights Drive            Maynard Road
                       Southbound                 Westbound                Northbound                  Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru   Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0     0     1      0       2    42     1      3     0     0      0      0       1    29     3      2             5           79            84
    06:45 AM        0     0     1      0       2    57     2      0     0     0      0      0       0    62     4      0             0          128           128
        Total       0     0     2      0       4    99     3      3     0     0      0      0       1    91     7      2             5          207           212

    07:00 AM        1     0      5     0       6    81      1     1      0     0      0     0       0    77      4     2            3           175           178
    07:15 AM        2     0      3     0       3   100      2     2      0     0      0     0       0    70      1     2            4           181           185
    07:30 AM        1     0      5     0       3   105      0     1      0     0      0     0       0    98      0     0            1           212           213
    07:45 AM        3     0      4     0       9   141      0     2      0     0      0     0       0   110      5     1            3           272           275
        Total       7     0     17     0      21   427      3     6      0     0      0     0       0   355     10     5           11           840           851

    08:00 AM        2     0      7     0       7   128      0     1      0     0      1     0       0   122      3     1            2          270            272
    08:15 AM        1     1      5     0       8   111      1     0      0     0      0     0       2   118      7     4            4          254            258
    08:30 AM        3     0      5     0      10   133      1     4      1     0      0     0       0    94      5     3            7          252            259
    08:45 AM        3     2      7     0       8   123      4     2      0     0      1     0       0    96      8     0            2          252            254
        Total       9     3     24     0      33   495      6     7      1     0      2     0       2   430     23     8           15         1028           1043

     09:00 AM       5     0     13     0      15   117      2     1      0     0      0     0       0    95      9     2             3          256           259
     09:15 AM       7     0     10     0       9    77      3     1      2     0      0     0       1   106      6     4             5          221           226
*** BREAK ***
         Total     12     0     23     0      24   194      5     2      2     0      0     0       1   201     15     6             8          477           485

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM       11     0     21     0      16    94      2     6      0     0      1     0       0   121     15     1             7          281           288
    03:45 PM       14     1     29     0      12   139      4     2      2     1      1     0       0   107     10     0             2          320           322
        Total      25     1     50     0      28   233      6     8      2     1      2     0       0   228     25     1             9          601           610

    04:00 PM       18     1     26     0      25   120      4     1      2     0      1     0       2   127     16     0             1         342            343
    04:15 PM       22     1     24     0      19   129      3     0      0     1      1     0       0   144     17     0             0         361            361
    04:30 PM       14     0     31     0      19   141      6     0      1     1      1     0       0   141     15     4             4         370            374
    04:45 PM       22     1     33     0      19   126      4     2      4     1      0     0       1   152     22     1             3         385            388
        Total      76     3    114     0      82   516     17     3      7     3      3     0       3   564     70     5             8        1458           1466

    05:00 PM       25     0     25     0      31   143      2     0      6     0      0     0       0   193     19     0             0         444            444
    05:15 PM       18     0     29     0      22   172      0     0      0     0      2     0       0   186     16     0             0         445            445
    05:30 PM       23     0     31     0      26   173      1     0      2     0      0     0       1   192     15     1             1         464            465
    05:45 PM       18     1     25     0      21   168      1     0      2     0      2     0       0   179     15     0             0         432            432
        Total      84     1    110     0     100   656      4     0     10     0      4     0       1   750     65     1             1        1785           1786

   06:00 PM        13      0     42    0      30    149     3     2      3      0      0    0       1    170    17     0            2          428            430
   06:15 PM        21      0     31    0      31    139     2     0      0      0      1    0       0    159    17     0            0          401            401
 Grand Total      247      8    413    0     353   2908    49    31     25      4     12    0       9   2948   249    28           59         7225           7284
  Apprch %         37    1.2   61.8         10.7   87.9   1.5           61    9.8   29.3          0.3     92   7.8
     Total %      3.4    0.1    5.7          4.9   40.2   0.7          0.3    0.1    0.2          0.1   40.8   3.4                0.8          99.2
                                                                Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
                                                                  (919) 851-1912
                                                                                      File Name         : NE Maynard @ Reedy Creek Rd
Weather: partly cloudy                                                                Site Code         : 00000226
Signal ID: 05-1529                                                                    Start Date        : 6/23/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                  Page No           :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Peds
                     Reedy Creek Rd              NE Maynard Rd           Reedy Creek Rd               NE Maynard Rd
                       Southbound                 Westbound                Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru   Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru    Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
*** BREAK ***
     06:45 AM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     2      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              2             2
         Total      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     2      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              2             2

     07:00 AM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     2      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              2             2
     07:15 AM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              1             1
     07:30 AM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     4      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              4             4

*** BREAK ***

     05:00 PM       0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
     05:30 PM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     2      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              2             2
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     2      0     0       0      0      0     0             0              3             3

*** BREAK ***
     06:15 PM       0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0      0      0     0             0             1             1
  Grand Total       0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     9      0     0       0      0      0     0             0            10            10
    Apprch %        0     0      0             0   100      0            0   100      0             0      0      0
       Total %      0     0      0             0    10      0            0    90      0             0      0      0                   0          100
                                                                Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
                                                                  (919) 851-1912
                                                                                      File Name         : NE Maynard @ Reedy Creek Rd
Weather: partly cloudy                                                                Site Code         : 00000226
Signal ID: 05-1529                                                                    Start Date        : 6/23/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                  Page No           :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                     Reedy Creek Rd              NE Maynard Rd           Reedy Creek Rd               NE Maynard Rd
                       Southbound                 Westbound                Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru   Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru    Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        1     0     6      0      12     50    1      3     0     0      0      0       1     36     4      0             3          111           114
    06:45 AM        3     0    15      0      24     49    0      1     0     0      0      0       0     74     2      0             1          167           168
        Total       4     0    21      0      36     99    1      4     0     0      0      0       1    110     6      0             4          278           282

    07:00 AM        1     0     28     1      34    65      1     2      0     1      1     0       0     78     3      3            6          212            218
    07:15 AM        4     1     23     0      35    49      6     0      1     3      0     0       2    102     3      0            0          229            229
    07:30 AM        3     1     29     0      50    63      1     2      1     4      0     0       0    129     5      0            2          286            288
    07:45 AM        8     0     47     0      51    92      2     2      2     1      2     0       1    160     5      0            2          371            373
        Total      16     2    127     1     170   269     10     6      4     9      3     0       3    469    16      3           10         1098           1108

    08:00 AM        9     3     42     0      73   116      6     0      2     2      3     0       2    144     9      3            3          411            414
    08:15 AM       10     1     30     0      78    97      1     3      3     7      2     0       2    135     4      1            4          370            374
    08:30 AM        6     1     23     0      76   106      6     5      1     3      4     0       2    141     2      3            8          371            379
    08:45 AM        2     0     29     0      91    97      4     1      2     5      1     0       1    113     5      1            2          350            352
        Total      27     5    124     0     318   416     17     9      8    17     10     0       7    533    20      8           17         1502           1519

     09:00 AM       2     0     41     0      78    97      2     2      0     0      3     0       2    114      1     1             3          340           343
     09:15 AM       8     1     37     0      51    68      6     0      2     1      3     0       2     98      1     2             2          278           280
*** BREAK ***
         Total     10     1     78     0     129   165      8     2      2     1      6     0       4    212      2     3             5          618           623

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM        4     3     37     0      32   100      2     1      5     2      2     0       4    118     6      1             2          315           317
    03:45 PM        1     3     45     0      43   108     12     1      2     2      6     0       5    112     7      0             1          346           347
        Total       5     6     82     0      75   208     14     2      7     4      8     0       9    230    13      1             3          661           664

    04:00 PM        7     5     77     0      31   118      3     0      7     7     15     0       3    114     4      1             1         391            392
    04:15 PM        7     8     86     0      45   157      7     2      7     4      3     0       6    147    11      0             2         488            490
    04:30 PM        7     8     90     0      35   147     11     0      9     2      5     0       3    122     3      0             0         442            442
    04:45 PM        8     7    105     0      52   165      8     2     12     5      5     0       4    166     6      2             4         543            547
        Total      29    28    358     0     163   587     29     4     35    18     28     0      16    549    24      3             7        1864           1871

    05:00 PM        9     4     90     0      50   145      6     0      6     7      6     0       2    146     5      0             0         476            476
    05:15 PM       10    14    129     0      32   213      4     0      6     8     11     0       6    225     5      2             2         663            665
    05:30 PM       19     9    125     0      40   210     10     0      4     1      6     0       4    236    13      0             0         677            677
    05:45 PM        9     7    124     0      48   199     14     0     17     6      4     0       4    209     8      1             1         649            650
        Total      47    34    468     0     170   767     34     0     33    22     27     0      16    816    31      3             3        2465           2468

   06:00 PM        11      7     96    0      53    181    14     0     12      6     12    1       4    190     8      0            1          594            595
   06:15 PM        12      4     87    0      36    147     4     0      9      6     11    0      11    192    15      0            0          534            534
 Grand Total      161     87   1441    1    1150   2839   131    27    110     83    105    1      71   3301   135     21           50         9614           9664
  Apprch %        9.5    5.2   85.3         27.9   68.9   3.2         36.9   27.9   35.2            2   94.1   3.8
     Total %      1.7    0.9     15           12   29.5   1.4          1.1    0.9    1.1          0.7   34.3   1.4                 0.5          99.5
                                                                  Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                   6750 Tryon Road
                                                                    Cary, NC 27518
                                                                    (919) 851-1912
                                                                                            File Name         : NE Maynard @ St. Charles Pl
Weather: hot & clear                                                                        Site Code         : 00000223
Signal ID: none                                                                             Start Date        : 6/29/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                        Page No           :1


                                                                  Groups Printed- Peds
                     St. Charles Place             Maynard Road                                           Maynard Road
                       Southbound                   Westbound                Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru     Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left   Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0      0      0      0       0     0     0      0     0     2      0       0        0     0     0      0             0              2             2
    06:45 AM        0      0      0      0       0     0     0      0     0     1      0       0        0     0     0      0             0              1             1
        Total       0      0      0      0       0     0     0      0     0     3      0       0        0     0     0      0             0              3             3

    07:00 AM        0      0      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      3     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              3             3
    07:15 AM        0      0      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      1     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              1             1
    07:30 AM        0      1      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      0     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              1             1
    07:45 AM        0      0      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      1     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              1             1
        Total       0      1      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      5     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              6             6

*** BREAK ***
     08:15 AM       0      0      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      1     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              1             1
     08:30 AM       0      0      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      1     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              1             1
     08:45 AM       0      0      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      3     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              3             3
         Total      0      0      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      5     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              5             5

*** BREAK ***

     06:00 PM       0      0      0      0       0     0      0    0      0      1     0       0        0     0      0     0             0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
  Grand Total       0      1      0      0       0     0      0    0      0     14     0       0        0     0      0     0             0            15            15
    Apprch %        0    100      0              0     0      0           0    100     0                0     0      0
       Total %      0    6.7      0              0     0      0           0   93.3     0                0     0      0                   0          100
                                                                  Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                   6750 Tryon Road
                                                                    Cary, NC 27518
                                                                    (919) 851-1912
                                                                                            File Name       : NE Maynard @ St. Charles Pl
Weather: hot & clear                                                                        Site Code       : 00000223
Signal ID: none                                                                             Start Date      : 6/29/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                        Page No         :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                     St. Charles Place             Maynard Road                                         Maynard Road
                       Southbound                   Westbound                Northbound                  Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru     Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        3      0      0      0       3    39     0      0     0     0      0      0       0     0     0      0             0           45            45
    06:45 AM        3      0      0      0       0    81     0      2     0     0      0      0       0     0     0      0             2           84            86
        Total       6      0      0      0       3   120     0      2     0     0      0      0       0     0     0      0             2          129           131

    07:00 AM        1      0      0      0       4    87      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0           92            92
    07:15 AM        1      0      0      0       3    93      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1           97            98
    07:30 AM        3      0      0      0       8   130      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1          141           142
    07:45 AM        5      0      0      0       6   135      0     2      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             2          146           148
        Total      10      0      0      0      21   445      0     4      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             4          476           480

    08:00 AM        3      0      0      1       4   112      0     4      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             5          119           124
    08:15 AM        2      0      0      0       2   121      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0          125           125
    08:30 AM        7      0      0      0       1   102      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0          110           110
    08:45 AM        3      0      0      0       6   140      0     4      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             4          149           153
        Total      15      0      0      1      13   475      0     8      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             9          503           512

     09:00 AM       2      0      0      0       5   116      0     2      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             2          123           125
     09:15 AM       5      0      0      0       5    93      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1          103           104
*** BREAK ***
         Total      7      0      0      0      10   209      0     3      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             3          226           229

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM       14      0      0      0       6   111      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0          131           131
    03:45 PM       10      0      0      0       8   119      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1          137           138
        Total      24      0      0      0      14   230      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1          268           269

    04:00 PM        8      0      0      0       4   136      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1          148           149
    04:15 PM       12      0      0      0       6   121      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0          139           139
    04:30 PM       19      0      0      0       3   132      0     2      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             2          154           156
    04:45 PM       19      0      0      0       8   184      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0          211           211
        Total      58      0      0      0      21   573      0     3      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             3          652           655

    05:00 PM       17      0      0      0       8   158      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1          183           184
    05:15 PM       19      0      0      0       4   222      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1          245           246
    05:30 PM       16      0      0      0      12   210      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0          238           238
    05:45 PM       21      0      0      0       6   200      0     1      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             1          227           228
        Total      73      0      0      0      30   790      0     3      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             3          893           896

   06:00 PM        16      0      0      0       4    162     0     2      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0            2          182            184
   06:15 PM        15      0      0      0       8    150     0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0            0          173            173
 Grand Total      224      0      0      1     124   3154     0    26      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0           27         3502           3529
  Apprch %        100      0      0            3.8   96.2     0            0     0      0             0     0      0
     Total %      6.4      0      0            3.5   90.1     0            0     0      0             0     0      0                0.8          99.2
                                                                  Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                   6750 Tryon Road
                                                                    Cary, NC 27518
                                                                    (919) 851-1912
                                                                                            File Name        : NE Maynard Rd @ Gregory Dr
Weather: clear & hot                                                                        Site Code        : 00000225
Signal ID: 05-2123                                                                          Start Date       : 6/24/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                        Page No          :1


                                                                  Groups Printed- Peds
                      Gregory Drive               NE Maynard Road           Gregory Drive               NE Maynard Road
                       Southbound                    Westbound               Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru   Left    Trucks   Right Thru  Left Trucks Right Thru    Left   Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
*** BREAK ***
     06:45 AM       0     1     0        0        0     0     0    0      0     1     0        0        0     1      0     0             0              3             3
         Total      0     1     0        0        0     0     0    0      0     1     0        0        0     1      0     0             0              3             3

*** BREAK ***

     08:15 AM       0     0     0        0        0     2     0    0      0     0     0        0        0     2      0     0             0              4             4
*** BREAK ***
     08:45 AM       0     0     0        0        0     1     0    0      0     0     0        0        0     1      0     0             0              2             2
         Total      0     0     0        0        0     3     0    0      0     0     0        0        0     3      0     0             0              6             6

*** BREAK ***

     03:30 PM       0     0     0        0        0     1     0    0      0     0     0        0        0     1      0     0             0              2             2
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0     0     0        0        0     1     0    0      0     0     0        0        0     1      0     0             0              2             2

*** BREAK ***

     05:15 PM       0     0     0        0        0     6     0    0      0     0     0        0        0     0      0     0             0              6             6
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0     0     0        0        0     6     0    0      0     0     0        0        0     0      0     0             0              6             6

*** BREAK ***
     06:15 PM       0     0     0        0        0      4    0    0      0     1     0        0        0      0     0     0             0             5             5
  Grand Total       0     1     0        0        0     14    0    0      0     2     0        0        0      5     0     0             0            22            22
    Apprch %        0   100     0                 0    100    0           0   100     0                 0    100     0
       Total %      0   4.5     0                 0   63.6    0           0   9.1     0                 0   22.7     0                   0          100
                                                                   Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                    6750 Tryon Road
                                                                     Cary, NC 27518
                                                                     (919) 851-1912
                                                                                             File Name     : NE Maynard Rd @ Gregory Dr
Weather: clear & hot                                                                         Site Code     : 00000225
Signal ID: 05-2123                                                                           Start Date    : 6/24/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                         Page No       :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                      Gregory Drive               NE Maynard Road           Gregory Drive             NE Maynard Road
                       Southbound                    Westbound               Northbound                  Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru   Left    Trucks   Right Thru  Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM       14     0    13        0        0    33     2     4     4     1      4      0       3    31     2      0             4          107           111
    06:45 AM       13     0      9       0        5    55     2     2     9     0     11      0       5    47     1      0             2          157           159
        Total      27     0    22        0        5    88     4     6    13     1     15      0       8    78     3      0             6          264           270

    07:00 AM       16     2     9        0        1    34     1     0     12      0    13      0      3    74      1     1            1           166           167
    07:15 AM       19     0    20        0        1    61     7     4      9      0     7      0      1    73      4     2            6           202           208
    07:30 AM       12     0    10        0        8    71     3     1     11      0    14      0     10   109      1     2            3           249           252
    07:45 AM       19     1    27        0        3    73     4     1     15      0    18      1      7   120      6     1            3           293           296
        Total      66     3    66        0       13   239    15     6     47      0    52      1     21   376     12     6           13           910           923

    08:00 AM        8     2    14        0        6    87     0     2     16      2    19      1      3   101      4     2            5           262           267
    08:15 AM       19     0    16        1        6    95     5     1     11      1    10      0      4    94      6     1            3           267           270
    08:30 AM       10     0    13        0        2    74     8     2      4      0    14      1      3    79      1     1            4           208           212
    08:45 AM       14     0    16        0        3   101     1     3      8      1     9      0      1   102      0     2            5           256           261
        Total      51     2    59        1       17   357    14     8     39      4    52      2     11   376     11     6           17           993          1010

     09:00 AM      15     0     8        0        4    57      4    9     10      1    11      0      3    60      3     1           10           176           186
     09:15 AM       8     1    13        0        3    61      2    1      4      0     8      0      3    76      6     2            3           185           188
*** BREAK ***
         Total     23     1    21        0        7   118      6   10     14      1    19      0      6   136      9     3           13           361           374

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM        8     0     9        0        5    83     9     0      5      0     4      0     12   109      8     0             0          252           252
    03:45 PM        7     0     7        0       19   120    10     3      2      3     4      0      7   101     12     1             4          292           296
        Total      15     0    16        0       24   203    19     3      7      3     8      0     19   210     20     1             4          544           548

    04:00 PM        7     1    10        0        7   135    10     2      4      2    12      0     19    94     19     0            2          320            322
    04:15 PM        9     2     7        0       10   110     4     1      3      3     6      0     18   133      9     2            3          314            317
    04:30 PM        8     0    11        0        9   115    11     5      4      1    12      0     18   141      5     2            7          335            342
    04:45 PM       15     0     8        0        7    88    10     2      3      0     8      0     19   167      7     0            2          332            334
        Total      39     3    36        0       33   448    35    10     14      6    38      0     74   535     40     4           14         1301           1315

    05:00 PM        4     4    11        0       10    90     9     3      4      0     7      0     17   199     13     0             3         368            371
    05:15 PM       10     0     9        0       16   156    12     2      5      1     2      0     21   206     19     1             3         457            460
    05:30 PM        7     0    10        0       16   156    12     0      5      0     9      0     21   195     23     0             0         454            454
    05:45 PM        5     3    17        0       17   157    17     2     11      7     9      0     21   179     12     1             3         455            458
        Total      26     7    47        0       59   559    50     7     25      8    27      0     80   779     67     2             9        1734           1743

   06:00 PM         7     1     19       0       13    100     6    0       7     0      6     0     21    165    14     1            1          359            360
   06:15 PM         7     1     18       0       19    123     9    2       8     0      9     1     16    155    11     0            3          376            379
 Grand Total      261    18    304       1      190   2235   158   52     174    23    226     4    256   2810   187    23           80         6842           6922
  Apprch %       44.8   3.1   52.1              7.4   86.5   6.1         41.1   5.4   53.4          7.9   86.4   5.7
     Total %      3.8   0.3    4.4              2.8   32.7   2.3          2.5   0.3    3.3          3.7   41.1   2.7                1.2          98.8
                                                                 Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                  6750 Tryon Road
                                                                   Cary, NC 27518
                                                                   (919) 851-1912
                                                                                     File Name      : NE Maynard Rd @ N Harrison Ave
Weather: hot & partly cloudy                                                         Site Code      : 00000222
Signal ID: 05-1339                                                                   Start Date     : 6/29/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                 Page No        :1


                                                                 Groups Printed- Peds
                     Harrison Avenue              Maynard Road            Harrison Avenue              Maynard Road
                       Southbound                  Westbound                Northbound                  Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM        0      0     0      0       0     0     0      0     0      1     0      0       0     0     0      0             0              1             1
    06:45 AM        0      1     0      0       0     1     0      0     0      1     0      0       0     0     0      0             0              3             3
        Total       0      1     0      0       0     1     0      0     0      2     0      0       0     0     0      0             0              4             4

    07:00 AM        0      0      0     0       0     2      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     3      0     0             0             5             5
    07:15 AM        0      1      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0             2             2
    07:30 AM        0      0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     2      0     0             0             3             3
    07:45 AM        0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0             0             1             1
        Total       0      1      0     0       0     4      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     6      0     0             0            11            11

     08:00 AM       0      0      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     2      0     0             0              4             4
*** BREAK ***
     08:30 AM       0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     1      0     0             0             2             2
     08:45 AM       0      1      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     3      0     0       0     0      0     0             0             4             4
         Total      0      1      0     0       0     1      0     0      0     5      0     0       0     3      0     0             0            10            10

*** BREAK ***

    04:15 PM        0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0             0              1             1
    04:30 PM        0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     2      0     0             0              2             2
    04:45 PM        0      1      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
        Total       0      1      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     3      0     0             0              4             4

     05:00 PM       0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0     1      0     0             0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
     05:30 PM       0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
         Total      0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     1      0     0             0              2             2

     06:00 PM       0      0      0     0       0     0      0     0      0     1      0     0       0     0      0     0             0              1             1
*** BREAK ***
  Grand Total       0      4      0     0       0      6     0     0      0      9     0     0       0     13     0     0             0            32            32
    Apprch %        0    100      0             0    100     0            0    100     0             0    100     0
       Total %      0   12.5      0             0   18.8     0            0   28.1     0             0   40.6     0                   0          100
                                                                  Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                   6750 Tryon Road
                                                                    Cary, NC 27518
                                                                    (919) 851-1912
                                                                                     File Name      : NE Maynard Rd @ N Harrison Ave
Weather: hot & partly cloudy                                                         Site Code      : 00000222
Signal ID: 05-1339                                                                   Start Date     : 6/29/2010
Pedestrians: counted                                                                 Page No        :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                     Harrison Avenue              Maynard Road            Harrison Avenue              Maynard Road
                       Southbound                  Westbound                Northbound                  Eastbound
 Start Time      Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks   Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM       11     17    15      2      16    31     3      2     0     30     2      0       0    14    12      0             4          151           155
    06:45 AM       16     34    13      2      13    43     1      0     0     52     5      0       2    37    13      3             5          229           234
        Total      27     51    28      4      29    74     4      2     0     82     7      0       2    51    25      3             9          380           389

    07:00 AM       14    31      7      0      24    49      4     1      1     69     0     0       3    42     30     0             1         274            275
    07:15 AM       18    27     13      3      29    63      6     1      0     82     7     0       3    53     26     1             5         327            332
    07:30 AM       16    41     18      0      34    65     10     1      0     88     6     0       3    66     46     0             1         393            394
    07:45 AM       20    51     27      1      31   101      7     0      4    120    12     0       2    89     46     1             2         510            512
        Total      68   150     65      4     118   278     27     3      5    359    25     0      11   250    148     2             9        1504           1513

    08:00 AM       25    64     22      0      40    86     10     3      7    139     9     0       8    72     55     3            6          537            543
    08:15 AM       18    52     21      1      41    85      8     3      3    148    11     1       5    78     67     2            7          537            544
    08:30 AM       22    55     33      2      40    85      6     0      1    123    13     1       8    75     66     0            3          527            530
    08:45 AM       23    52     28      3      30    90     10     1      4    153     6     0       7    92     70     2            6          565            571
        Total      88   223    104      6     151   346     34     7     15    563    39     2      28   317    258     7           22         2166           2188

     09:00 AM      30     55    26      1      33   107      3     4      7    153     8     0       9    60     61     0             5          552           557
     09:15 AM      14     92    21      1      13    74     14     2      5     58    11     1       9    74     35     0             4          420           424
*** BREAK ***
         Total     44   147     47      2      46   181     17     6     12    211    19     1      18   134     96     0             9          972           981

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM       27    89     29      2      15    92     19     0      4     45    17     0      10    72     37     0             2         456            458
    03:45 PM       39   102     41      0      17    95     26     0     22     68    19     1       6    81     32     1             2         548            550
        Total      66   191     70      2      32   187     45     0     26    113    36     1      16   153     69     1             4        1004           1008

    04:00 PM       38   102     38      0      11    95     16     1     20     59    29     0      15    74     39     1             2         536            538
    04:15 PM       41   127     43      0      11   113     12     0     12     51    14     1      12    80     45     1             2         561            563
    04:30 PM       47   118     47      1      14   106     23     0     14     72    24     0      12   108     33     1             2         618            620
    04:45 PM       64   134     44      0      10   119     19     1     13     71    13     1      14   108     49     1             3         658            661
        Total     190   481    172      1      46   433     70     2     59    253    80     2      53   370    166     4             9        2373           2382

    05:00 PM       58   156     62      0      16   154     22     1     11     56    25     0      12    98     41     1             2         711            713
    05:15 PM      102   206     72      2      11   141     28     0     20     74    22     1      12   148     40     1             4         876            880
    05:30 PM       80   171     80      0      12   183     36     0     15     69    25     0      18   136     38     1             1         863            864
    05:45 PM       76   144     79      1      10   178     26     0     16     98    26     0      23   146     44     1             2         866            868
        Total     316   677    293      3      49   656    112     1     62    297    98     1      65   528    163     4             9        3316           3325

   06:00 PM        55    142    69      0      14    167     23    1     13     59     23    0      14    111     35    1            2         725            727
   06:15 PM        55    103    71      0      31    128     26    2     14     53     17    0      16    124     65    1            3         703            706
 Grand Total      909   2165   919     22     516   2450    358   24    206   1990    344    7     223   2038   1025   23           76       13143          13219
  Apprch %       22.8   54.2    23           15.5   73.7   10.8         8.1   78.3   13.5          6.8     62   31.2
     Total %      6.9   16.5     7            3.9   18.6    2.7         1.6   15.1    2.6          1.7   15.5    7.8               0.6          99.4
                                                                     Mulkey, Inc.
                                                                      6750 Tryon Road
                                                                       Cary, NC 27518
                                                                       (919) 851-1912
                                                                                                    File Name      : NW Maynard @ Evans Rd
Weather: hot & clear                                                                                Site Code      : 00000221
Signal ID: 05-0585                                                                                  Start Date     : 6/23/2010
Pedestrians: none                                                                                   Page No        :1


                                                              Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                         Evans Drive               NW Maynard Road            Evans Drive               NW Maynard Road
                         Southbound                   Westbound               Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time      Right    Thru  Left   Trucks   Right Thru  Left Trucks Right Thru    Left Trucks    Right Thru   Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    06:30 AM       13        3    10      0        9    36    6      4     0     1      0      0        5    28    21      1            5           132           137
    06:45 AM       20        1    10      0       14    69    7      7     2     0      6      0       11    43    52      1            8           235           243
        Total      33        4    20      0       23   105   13    11      2     1      6      0       16    71    73      2           13           367           380

    07:00 AM       18       4    13       0       13    57      5     3     3      0      3    0        9    63     43     2            5          231            236
    07:15 AM       21       4    18       0        8    69      5     5     3      5      5    0       17    73     53     0            5          281            286
    07:30 AM       34       3    26       0       18    59      5     3     1      5      6    0       22   119     85     5            8          383            391
    07:45 AM       41      13    23       0       37    98      8     3     0      7      8    0       22   100    109     1            4          466            470
        Total     114      24    80       0       76   283     23    14     7     17     22    0       70   355    290     8           22         1361           1383

    08:00 AM       33       2    30       0       33    71      5     2     8      4     12    0       18   109     75     2            4          400            404
    08:15 AM       38       4    21       0       21    90      6     4     6      6     12    0       27   122    112     5            9          465            474
    08:30 AM       37       8    23       1       24   103      4     5    12      6     10    1       14   120     96     3           10          457            467
    08:45 AM       48       9    25       0       34    66      6     4    10     12     12    0       23   110     83     4            8          438            446
        Total     156      23    99       1      112   330     21    15    36     28     46    1       82   461    366    14           31         1760           1791

     09:00 AM      25       8    17       1       33    97     11     5     6     11     10    1       18    97     53     3           10           386           396
     09:15 AM      44       5    19       0       13    83      9     2     6      5     18    0       16    97     52     2            4           367           371
*** BREAK ***
         Total     69      13    36       1       46   180     20     7    12     16     28    1       34   194    105     5           14           753           767

*** BREAK ***

    03:30 PM       39       7    19       0        8   101     26     2     4      8     25    0       10   104     24     0             2          375           377
    03:45 PM       49       6    21       0       10    69     30     1     8      3     16    0       12    81     42     1             2          347           349
        Total      88      13    40       0       18   170     56     3    12     11     41    0       22   185     66     1             4          722           726

    04:00 PM       60       9    35       0       11    82     24     0     9      1     12    0       10    87     30     0            0          370            370
    04:15 PM      100       9    39       0       11    83     34     3    12      7     12    0       13    94     34     0            3          448            451
    04:30 PM      120       6    50       1        7    77     27     3    18      9     12    1       14    99     34     1            6          473            479
    04:45 PM      145      23    62       0       11    73     23     1     6      6      9    0       18    93     30     0            1          499            500
        Total     425      47   186       1       40   315    108     7    45     23     45    1       55   373    128     1           10         1790           1800

    05:00 PM      163      14    69       1        6    79     31     0     7      1     10    0        5   120     54     0            1          559            560
    05:15 PM      171       5    89       0       10   107     44     2     3      3      9    0       15   128     49     1            3          633            636
    05:30 PM      161      12    65       0        7   115     40     5    10      4     14    0        8   114     45     1            6          595            601
    05:45 PM      130      16    68       0       14   104     40     1     6      2      4    1       16   118     49     0            2          567            569
        Total     625      47   291       1       37   405    155     8    26     10     37    1       44   480    197     2           12         2354           2366

   06:00 PM       110      13     53      0        8     99     33    1     15     12     17   0       11    111     39    0           1          521            522
   06:15 PM        87       6     41      0       11    119     37    1      7      5     12   0       19    127     33    0           1          504            505
 Grand Total     1707     190    846      4      371   2006    466   67    162    123    254   4      353   2357   1297   33         108        10132          10240
  Apprch %       62.2     6.9   30.8              13   70.6   16.4        30.1   22.8   47.1          8.8   58.8   32.4
     Total %     16.8     1.9    8.3             3.7   19.8    4.6         1.6    1.2    2.5          3.5   23.3   12.8               1.1          98.9
