TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
REPORT 317 - DRAFT

Stonewater PUD
Amendment

Proposed
Commercial Development




O'KELLY CHAPEL ROAD AND
GREEN LEVEL TO DURHAM
ROAD


The Town of Cary, North Carolina




PREPARED FOR:

Town of Cary
Engineering Department

PREPARED BY:

HNTB North Carolina, PC
343 East Six Forks Road
Suite 200
Raleigh, NC 27609



September 2009
       TRAFFIC AN ALYSIS REPORT 317 - DRAFT


           STONEWATER PUD AMENDMENT
       PROPOSED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT



O'KELL Y CHAPEL ROAD AND GREEN LEVEL TO DURHAM ROAD




         THE TOW N OF CARY, NORTH CAROLINA




                      Prepared for:

          Town of Cary - Engineering Department




                      Prepared by:

                HNTB North Carolina, PC

                  343 East Six Forks Road
                         Suite 200
                    Raleigh, NC 27609


                     September 2009
                                      Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317 - DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Two scenarios for the revision of a proposed commercial parcel that is part of the
Stonewater Planned Unit Development (PUD) are being proposed for construction in
Cary, NC. The development site is located at the intersection of O'Kelly Chapel Road
and Green Level to Durham Road in the western part of Cary. Figure 1 shows the
general site location of the planned development revision and intersections that will be
analyzed for this study.

The proposed development amendment scenarios consist of either a general office
building and drive-through bank (Scenario #1) or a pharmacy with drive-through access
(Scenario #2). The current approved size of commercial development on the site is for
10,200 square feet. Regardless of the choice of scenario, the development amendment
is planned to be fully complete by 2014. This report analyzes the net effects and
impacts of both full build-out scenarios and the no-build scenario for the 2014 design
year, as well as 2009 existing year traffic conditions. The no-build scenario includes the
impacts of the currently approved development density at the site location. This report
analyzes and presents the traffic impacts that the proposed development amendment
scenarios will have on the following intersections in the northwest Cary area:

    O'Kelly Chapel Road and N.C. 55
    O'Kelly Chapel Road and Existing Site Driveway #1 (RIRO)
    O'Kelly Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road (old alignment)
    O'Kelly Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road (new alignment)
    Green Level to Durham Road and Proposed Site Driveway #2 (RIRO)

The impacts of the proposed site at these intersections will be evaluated during the AM
and PM peak hours of an average weekday. The following analysis is based on
background traffic for the existing year, 2009, the growth in background traffic for the
design year of 2014, and the estimated site-generated traffic produced by the
development parcel.

There are several developments under construction and Town of Cary-approved future
developments in the study area that are expected to generate additional background
traffic for the 2014 design year analyses. No additional ambient growth rate was
applied to existing traffic volumes to account for overall area-wide growth. Due to the
significant increases in predicted peak hour traffic volumes generated by several of the
background developments, it was assumed that this amount of traffic would account for
the majority of the background growth along study area roadways.

.




                                          ES-1
                                      Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317 - DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

II. EXISTING CONDITIONS

All existing study area intersections are unsignalized. The study area features
numerous developments either already under construction or planned in the near future.
Several parcels that constitute the Stonewater PUD are currently in varying stages of
development surrounding the proposed site. N.C. 55 is a high volume, regionally
significant arterial roadway featuring heavy northbound AM peak hour and southbound
PM peak hour traffic flows to and from the Research Triangle Park area.         O'Kelly
Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road serve the study area as minor arterials,
providing access to residential and commercial areas in the nearby west Cary vicinity.
The intersection of O'Kelly Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road is split into
two "T" intersections, as Green Level to Durham Road is not dire ctly aligned in this
area. Currently, the site property is undeveloped, but has been graded and cleared.


III. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

The preliminary Stonewater PUD Commercial development amendment site plan
indicates two scenarios to be studied. Scenario #1 includes 25,000 square feet of
general office space and a drive-in bank with three drive-through lanes and an ATM
lane. Scenario #2 proposes a 15,500 square foot pharmacy with a drive-through lane.

These land uses are an amendment to currently approved density of 10,200 square feet
of commercial development. Current development plans under review by the Town for
this site show the 10,200 square feet to be a pharmacy with a drive-through lane. To
facilitate the evaluation of "net" impacts of the development revision, the 10,200 square
foot pharmacy is considered to be the "base" condition that will be included in 2014 no -
build analyses of study area intersections.

The preliminary site plan on Figure 2 does not differentiate between the scenarios in
terms of building footprints, parking lot locations, or internal driveway circulation. The
site plan proposes to use an existing site driveway connection to O'Kelly Chapel Road,
with cross-access available into the Tradition at Stonewater apartment complex
immediately adjacent to the site. The site plan also proposes a second external access
point along Green Level to Durham Road. Both external access points are to be limited
to RIRO movements. This will require u-turn movements to be made for certain
entering and exiting site traffic routes. No external roadway improvements to
accommodate these u-turns, or for any other reason, are shown on the site plan.

Table ES-1, on the following page, shows the estimated trip generation "net" differences
between each development amendment scenario and the "base" 10,200 square foot
pharmacy scenario. All generation data is based on methodologies found in the
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual, Volume 8. Site trips
were distributed on the study area roadway network using existing daily and peak hour
traffic patterns, and were routed to account for necessary u-turn movements due to
access limitation at both site driveways.


                                          ES-2
                                          Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317 - DRAFT
                           Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

                 Table ES-1. Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary

Scenario #1 Net Trip Generation Data
  Time                          Total Trips               Pass-by Trips             New Trips
 Period   % In    % Out   In      Out       Total      In     Out     Total    In     Out     Total
  Daily   50%      50%    59      59         118      N/A     N/A      N/A    N/A     N/A      N/A
   AM     85%      15%    60      11          71        0      0         0    60      11        71
   PM     17%      83%    19      92         111       -1      0        -1    20      92       112

Scenario #2 Net Trip Generation Data
 Time                           Total Trips               Pass-by Trips             New Trips
Period    % In   % Out     In     Out       Total      In     Out     Total    In     Out     Total
 Daily    50%     50%     233     233        466      N/A     N/A      N/A    N/A     N/A      N/A
  AM      57%     43%       8       6         14        0       0       0       8      6       14
  PM      50%     50%      27      27         54      13       13      26     14      14       28

As shown in Table ES-1, net differences between land use types can produce changes
in daily and peak hour totals that are not necessarily additive. For example, Scenario
#1 AM and PM peak total trips exceed the net amount of predicted daily trips. This
discrepancy does not negatively impact the ability to analyze peak hour trip impacts in
the intersection operations analyses.

IV. TRAFFIC OPERATIONS ANALYSIS

Existing intersections were analyzed during AM and PM peak hours, with the use of
average peak hour traffic volumes calculated from data collected by HNTB. 2014
design year traffic volumes were estimated by adding existing 2009 traffic volume data
to projected site traffic from nearby Town-approved background traffic generators. It
was assumed that several development-related roadway/intersection improvement
projects would be completed by the 2014 design year. The addition of background
traffic growth increases operational problems at several study area intersections, even
with proposed mitigation improvements from the private development projects. To
mitigate 2014 design year deficiencies, additional mitigations were tested above and
beyond what was already considered to be constructed by nearby developments by the
2014 design year.

The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM 2000) and the corresponding Highway
Capacity Software (HCS+) provide the methodology with which to perform the capacity
analyses. The HCM methods determine level of service. Level of service provides a
qualitative rating of traffic conditions based on quantitative data for a given
transportation facility type. HCS+ was supplemented with the traffic operations
evaluation software Synchro Professional Version 7.0 to evaluate future operations at
any signalized intersections. A summary of the traffic operations for each intersection,
related to vehicular delays (intersection average as a whole if signalized, critical
movement if stop-controlled) and the corresponding Level-of-Service (LOS) is shown in
Table ES-2 on the following page.


                                               ES-3
                                                                                          Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317 - DRAFT
                                                                            Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


                                                                         Table ES-2
                                                               LOS and Delay (Sec/Veh) Summary

                                                                                    2014 Build     2014 Build    2014 Mitigated   2014 Mitigated
                                            Time 2009 Existing 2014 No-Build        Scenario #1    Scenario #2    Scenario #1      Scenario #2
                                           Period
            Intersections                         LOS Delay LOS Delay               LOS   Delay    LOS   Delay   LOS     Delay    LOS     Delay
O'Kelly Chapel Road and                      AM          C       17.6   F   886.3    F     1071     F    891.8     D      40.6      D      38.5
Green Level to Durham Rd (new)               PM          D       27.9   F   1665     F     1325     F    1774      D      44.9      D      43.5
O'Kelly Chapel Road and                      AM          C       20.7   F   524.8    F     597.6    F    567.4    N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A
Green Level to Durham Rd (old)               PM          F       52.0   F     *      F       *      F      *      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A
O'Kelly Chapel Road and                      AM          A        9.7   B   12.4     B     12.7     B    12.5      A      10.0      A      10.0
Site Driveway (RIRO)                         PM          B       12.4   D   29.7     F     59.1     D    34.7      C      15.7      B      14.0
O'Kelly Chapel Road and                      AM          F      72.2    D   35.2     D     35.5     D    35.3      C     33.2       C      33.2
N.C. Highway 55                              PM          F      158.4   F   159.3    F     162.8    F    159.6     F     115.1      F      111.1
Green Level to Durham Rd and                 AM          N/A     N/A    B   10.1     B     10.2     B    10.1      B      10.2     N/A     N/A
Proposed Site Driveway (RIRO)                PM          N/A     N/A    A    8.8     A      9.0     A     9.0      A       9.0     N/A     N/A
N/A ­ Not Applicable or No Improvements Necessary
* - No Movement Capacity, Delay Theoretically Infinite




                                                                            ES-4
                                      Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317 - DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


V. MITIGATION RELATED TO THE PROJECT

A summary of intersection capacity analyses and the effect of site traffic from the
Stonewater PUD Commercial development amendment scenarios on individual study
area intersections is presented below, along with a discussion of necessary mitigation
for the 2014 design year.        Figure 12 presents all recommended mitigation
improvements above and beyond what is expected to be constructed/improved by
developer-related agreements with the Town of Cary.

O'Kelly Chapel Road and N.C. 55
This intersection is currently a stop-controlled T-intersection and operates over capacity
for the O'Kelly Road approach in the AM and PM peak hours. Significant changes to
the intersection are expected by 2014, as the adjacent Parkside Town Commons
development will add an extension to O'Kelly Chapel Road to the east of N.C. 55 (see
Figure 5 for details). Even with improvements recommended in the TAR 225 - Parkside
Town Commons study and shown on site development plans, the intersection is
expected to operate at a LOS F in the 2014 design year PM peak hour, with or without
site-generated traffic from the Stonewater PUD Commercial development amendment
scenarios.

The recommended improvements beyond what is shown for the Parkside Town
Commons development plan to mitigate operational problems at the intersection are the
following (see Figure 12 for additional detail):

   Construct an additional westbound through travel lane on O'Kelly Chapel Road west
   of the intersection.
   Lengthen the existing eastbound right-turn lane from 250 feet to 1,200 feet to
   accommodate heavy eastbound right-turn volumes.
   Restripe the interim striping concept for the northbound left-turn movement to allow
   dual left-turn lanes.
   Restripe the proposed westbound approach to include two through travel lanes and
   one right-turn lane instead of one through travel lane and two right-turn lanes.
   Re-optimize the signal timings/upgrade signal heads.

These improvements are required to meet Town of Cary APFO thresholds at this
intersection and apply to both development scenarios. The implementation of the
proposed improvements will cut per-vehicle delay by 45 seconds in the PM peak hour,
but will not improve overall LOS in the PM peak hour to an acceptable level. However,
mitigation improvements allow the intersection to operate better than 2014 No-Build
conditions, thus no further improvements are necessary at the intersection to meet
Town of Cary Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance standards.

If the Parkside Town Commons development project does not proceed as planned, and
no improvements as shown on site plans for this development are carried out, this
intersection will continue to experience capacity deficiencies even without anticipated


                                          ES-5
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317 - DRAFT
                          Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

traffic volume increases due to the Parkside Town Commons development. Though not
specifically analyzed in this report, this scenario would require, at a minimum, the
installation of a traffic signal at this intersection to meet Town of Cary APFO standards.

O'Kelly Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road
This intersection is currently split into two T-intersections at O'Kelly Chapel Road, since
Green Level to Durham Road is aligned into two separate roadways. Current traffic
operations at these intersections are deficient for the northbound stop-controlled Green
Level to Durham Road approach during the PM peak hour, and projected traffic
volumes in the immediate area are expected to increase significantly with new
development, causing both stop-controlled approaches to experience LOS F conditions
in both AM and PM peak hours by 2014 with or without site-related net traffic volumes.
No current developer agreements or Town of Cary/NCDOT plans exist to improve the
intersections by the 2014 design year.

To mitigate existing and future expected capacity deficiencies, and to allow for safe u-
turn operations that will be necessary in this area due to restricted access site
driveways for the TAR 317 parcel, the primary recommendation is to realign the
southern leg of Green Level to Durham Road to align with the newer median-divided
cross-section.    The following laneage changes/improvements, by approach, are
necessary to allow adequate capacity during anticipated 2014 traffic demands for either
development scenario:

   Northbound Green Level to Durham Road
   Construct two northbound travel lanes and an exclusive northbound left-turn lane
   with at least 225' of storage. Construct one southbound through travel lane.
   Eastbound O'Kelly Chapel Road
   Construct the southern portion of a four-lane divided cross-section along O'Kelly
   Chapel Road to tie in to the cross-section being constructed as part of the Amberly
   Developer's Agreement. This would allow two westbound travel lanes (restriping the
   existing two-way roadway) and two eastbound travel lanes west of Green Level to
   Durham Road. Also, construct an eastbound left-turn storage bay with at least 250'
   of storage.
   Southbound Green Level to Durham Road
   Restripe the existing southbound intersection approach to allow the use of currently
   striped-off pavement for a left-turn bay with 225' of storage. Restripe the current left-
   turn lane as a through travel lane.
   Westbound O'Kelly Chapel Road
   Convert the existing two-way laneage on O'Kelly Chapel Road to the east of Green
   Level to Durham Road to two westbound travel lanes. Widen the existing roadway
   to the north for an additional lane that would function as a right-turn drop lane along
   the site frontage (to meet Town of Cary Comprehensive Transportation Plan
   requirements for an ultimate six-lane cross-section in this vicinity). Construct a
   westbound left-turn storage bay with at least 300' of storage. Construct a median-
   divided eastbound through travel lane from Green Level to Durham Road that would
   eventually tie into the existing cross-section near N.C. 55. Provide a u-turn bulb-out,

                                           ES-6
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317 - DRAFT
                          Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

   or adequate pavement width for the eastbound travel lane to allow for westbound u-
   turn movements.
   Overall Intersection
   Install traffic signal with protected left-turn phasing for all approaches to allow u-turn
   movements.

These improvements are schematically shown in Figure 12. These improvements are
required, as a minimum, to meet Town of Cary APFO thresholds. No further mitigation
is necessary if the improvements described above are constructed to provide adequate
capacity for anticipated traffic volumes in the 2014 site build-out year.

O'Kelly Chapel Road and Existing Site Driveway
The preliminary Stonewater PUD Commercial development amendment overall site
plan shows this existing site driveway to have limited access to O'Kelly Chapel Road.
Operational analyses indicate that the intersection will operate acceptably in the 2014
AM and PM peak hours for site development scenario #2. Site development scenario
#1 is anticipated to cause the southbound stop-controlled approach to operate at a LOS
F in the PM peak hour. Due to larger-scale recommended improvements to O'Kelly
Chapel Road for its intersections at Green Level to Durham Road and N.C. 55, the
following mitigation improvements are recommended at this location:

   Restripe the existing two-way laneage on O'Kelly Chapel Road in the intersection
   vicinity for two westbound travel lanes.
   Construct a median-divided eastbound through travel lane through this vicinity.
   Construct a westbound right-turn deceleration lane (to meet Town of Cary
   Comprehensive Transportation Plan recommendations for an ultimate six-lane
   cross-section on O'Kelly Chapel Road in this vicinity) with 150 feet of storage.

These improvements are required to meet Town of Cary APFO thresholds for site
development scenario #1 at this specific intersection, and are required to meet APFO
thresholds for both development scenarios in coordination with requirements at adjacent
intersections.

Green Level to Durham Road and Proposed Site Driveway
Capacity Analyses for 2014 design year conditions indicate that this intersection should
operate acceptably in both peak hours. No further improvements are recommended at
this intersection.

Proposed Cross-Access to Existing Tradition at Stonewater Apartment Complex
No specific operations analyses were conducted for this proposed cross-access
connection from the site to an existing internal circulation driveway to the east of the
site. In general, the proposed cross-access should allow local trips from the apartment
complex to/from the site to avoid using external roadways and should not promote
external trips seeking access to the site to route their trip through the apartment
complex or promote apartment complex traffic to use the internal driveways at the site
for external access.

                                           ES-7
                                            Table of Contents

LIST OF FIGURES .............................................................................................. iii

LIST OF TABLES ................................................................................................ iv

I. Existing Conditions ........................................................................................ 1

         A. Introduction ............................................................................................ 1

         B. Project Description ................................................................................. 1

         C. Geometrics and Traffic Control .............................................................. 2

         D. Existing Volumes and Other Potential Impacts ...................................... 3

II. Probable Impacts of the Project ................................................................... 4

III. Traffic Impacts .............................................................................................. 5

         A. Trip Generation ...................................................................................... 5

         B. Trip Distribution ...................................................................................... 9

         C. Background Traffic ................................................................................ 9

         D. 2014 Build-Out Year Conditions .......................................................... 10

IV. Impact Analysis .......................................................................................... 11

         A. Capacity Analysis Methodology ........................................................... 11

         B. Capacity Analysis Results.................................................................... 17

V. Summary and Recommendations .............................................................. 18


APPENDICES

         A. Figures

         B. Traffic Count Data

         C. Background Traffic Study Data

         D. Synchro Signalized Analysis Output



                                                          i
         E. Highway Capacity Software Analysis Output



                                            List of Figures

Figure

1) Site Location Map

2) Preliminary Site Plan

3) 2009 Existing Laneage

4) 2009 Existing Traffic Volumes

5) 2014 Background Improvements

6) 2014 Site Trip Distribution Percentages

7-1) 2014 Site Traffic Assignment

7-2) 2014 Site Traffic Assignment

8) 2014 Total Background Traffic

9) 2014 Traffic Volumes Without Site

10-1) 2014 Traffic Volume With Site

10-2) 2014 Traffic Volume With Site

11) 2014 Redistributed Traffic Volumes With Site

12) Recommended Improvements



                                             List of Tables

Table                                                                                                  Page

1) Traffic Count Information ................................................................................ 3

2A) Weekday Site Trip Generation Summary ­ Scenario #1 .............................. 7




                                                      ii
2B) Weekday Site Trip Generation Summary ­ Scenario #2 .............................. 8

3) Level of Service (LOS) Characteristics ......................................................... 12

4A) Level of Service for Study Area Intersections .............................................. 15

4B) Delay Results for Study Area Intersections ................................................. 16




                                                  iii
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


I. EXISTING CONDITIONS

A. Introduction

Two scenarios for the revision of a proposed commercial parcel that is part of the
Stonewater Planned Unit Development (PUD) are being proposed for construction in
Cary, NC. The development site is located at the intersection of O'Kelly Chapel Road
and Green Level to Durham Road in the western part of Cary. Figure 1 shows the
general site location of the planned development revision and intersections that will be
analyzed for this study.

The proposed development amendment scenarios consist of either a general office
building and drive-through bank (Scenario #1) or a pharmacy with drive-through access
(Scenario #2). The current approved size of commercial development on the site is for
10,200 square feet. Regardless of the choice of scenario, the development amendment
is planned to be fully complete by 2014. This report analyzes the net effects and
impacts of both full build-out scenarios and the no-build scenario for the 2014 design
year, as well as 2009 existing year traffic conditions. The no-build scenario includes the
impacts of the currently approved development density at the site location.

The Stonewater PUD commercial parcel is currently undeveloped, but has been cleared
and graded. Figure 2 shows a preliminary site sketch for the proposed Stonewater
PUD Commercial amendment, depicting general building locations, internal driveways
and parking, and locations of two right-turn in/right-turn out only (RIRO) access
driveways to Green Level to Durham Road and O'Kelly Chapel Road.

B. Project Description

This report analyzes and presents the traffic impacts that the proposed Stonewater PUD
Commercial development amendment scenarios will have on the following intersections
in the northwest Cary area:

   O'Kelly Chapel Road and N.C. 55
   O'Kelly Chapel Road and Existing Site Driveway #1 (RIRO)
   O'Kelly Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road (old alignment)
   O'Kelly Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road (new alignment)
   Green Level to Durham Road and Proposed Site Driveway #2 (RIRO)

The impacts of the proposed site at these intersections will be evaluated during the AM
and PM peak hours of an average weekday. The following analysis is based on
background traffic for the existing year, 2009, the growth in background traffic for the
design year of 2014, and the estimated net site-generated traffic produced by the
development amendment scenarios. There are several Town of Cary-approved future
developments, and developments under construction, in the study area that are
expected to generate additional background traffic for the 2014 design year analyses.


                                            1
                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                          Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


No additional ambient growth rate was applied to existing traffic volumes to account for
overall area-wide traffic growth. Due to the significant increases in predicted peak hour
traffic volumes generated by several of the background developments, it was assumed
that this amount of traffic would account for the majority of the background growth along
study area roadways.

C. Geometrics and Traffic Control

Existing Roadways

N.C. Highway 55 is a heavily traveled arterial that runs north-south in the study area
connecting Cary and Apex with RTP (Research Triangle Park) and Durham, located just
to the east of the site. Currently, it is a four-lane median divided facility in the project
study area, with turn lanes at major intersections. The current posted speed is 50 mph.
No pedestrian facilities are present, and on-street parking is not allowed.

O'Kelly Chapel Road is an east-west minor arterial connecting N.C. 55 in the study
area with Green Level to Durham Road in the study area and ultimately connecting to
N.C. 751 near Jordan Lake. It serves new residential and commercial developments
either complete, under construction, or planned in the near future. In the project study
area, O'Kelly Chapel Road is a two-lane facility with a 55 mph speed limit. Current
right-of-way is reserved for an eventual four-lane divided cross section west of Green
Level to Durham Road and a six-lane cross-section east of Green Level to Durham
Road to N.C. 55. Some pedestrian facilities are present in the areas bordering the
Stonewater PUD and on-street parking is not allowed.

Green Level to Durham Road is a north-south two-lane minor arterial serving
developing residential and commercial areas in west Cary. In the area north of O'Kelly
Chapel Road that is part of the Stonewater PUD, the roadway has been widened to a
four-lane cross section and realigned from its original intersection with O'Kelly Chapel
Road. The posted speed limit is 45 mph and limited pedestrian facilities are present
south of O'Kelly Chapel Road. Sidewalk is present north of O'Kelly Chapel Road. No
provisions exist for on-street parking.

Intersections

Currently, there are four intersections in the study area. All intersections are currently
two-way stop controlled, with stop signs at the minor street approaches. Some
intersection approaches have exclusive turn bays for higher-volume turning movements.
Figure 3 shows the existing lane configurations and traffic control for these
intersections and adjacent roadway segments.




                                             2
                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                            Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

D. Existing Traffic Volumes and Other Potential Impacts

Figure 4 shows the existing AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes for the study area
intersections. The counts used to determine these volumes were conducted by HNTB
North Carolina, P.C. for the following intersections during the respective times shown in
Table 1 on the next page. Traffic count data files can be found in Appendix B of this
report.

                                         Table 1
                                Traffic Count Information

                                                     Period      Count
   Traffic Count Location                                                   Peak Hour
                                                    Counted       Date
                                                     AM Peak               7:30 ­ 8:30 AM
   O'Kelly Chapel Road and N.C. 55                               9/2/09
                                                     PM Peak               4:45 ­ 5:45 PM
                                                     AM Peak               7:30 ­ 8:30 AM
   O'Kelly Chapel Road and Existing Site Driveway                9/1/09
                                                     PM Peak               5:15 ­ 6:15 PM
   O'Kelly Chapel Road and                           AM Peak               7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
                                                                 9/1/09
   Green Level to Durham Road (old alignment)        PM Peak               5:00 ­ 6:00 PM
   O'Kelly Chapel Road and                           AM Peak               7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
                                                                 9/1/09
   Green Level to Durham Road (new alignment)        PM Peak               5:00 ­ 6:00 PM

Transit Impacts
Currently, Triangle Transit Authority (TTA) Route 311 operates within the study area.
The daily 311 route runs along N.C. 55, serving both Apex and Research Triangle Park.
Route 311 buses have 30 minute headways in each direction during the AM and PM
peak periods. Because of the large headways between buses (two/three total buses by
direction in the AM peak hour and two/three buses in the PM peak hour) and the small
percentage of ridership (in terms of total trips made in the study area), it is anticipated
that this route will have an insignificant effect on travel behavior of site traffic in the
study area.

The Town of Cary offers a demand-responsive bus service, C-Tran, which is available
to senior citizens and those with mobility limitations. It is a door-to-door service that is
available for use by reservation only. Though this service is provided throughout most
of the study area, it is anticipated that it will have an insignificant effect on travel
behavior of site traffic in the study area. C-Tran also offers fixed route bus service on
six routes, but none of these routes operate within one mile of the study area.
Therefore, no adjustment has been made to projected site traffic volumes, based on C-
Tran services.

Planned Roadway Improvement Impacts
The Town of Cary and the North Carolina Department of Transportation have no major
roadway improvement projects that will have direct impacts on traffic flow in the
Stonewater PUD Commercial study area by 2014. A number of major developments,
either planned or currently under construction, are expected to cause major changes at


                                             3
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

a number of study area intersections and along some sections of existing study area
roadways. These changes are listed below.

Parkside Town Commons Improvements
The proposed roadway network developed for the Town of Cary TAR 225 ­ Parkside
Town Commons project would include an extension of O'Kelly Chapel Road to the east
of N.C. 55 as a four-lane divided facility. This project would also improve intersection
turning movements at the N.C. 55/O'Kelly Chapel Road intersection via additional
auxiliary turn lanes and a through travel lane northbound on N.C. 55. The intersection
of N.C. 55 and O'Kelly Chapel Road will also be signalized as part of the proposed
improvements.

Stonewater PUD Improvements
Stonewater PUD parcels are currently under construction and several infrastructure
improvements have already been made. O'Kelly Chapel Road has been realigned
along the southern frontage of the Stonewater PUD, and Green Level to Durham Road
has been realigned and widened to a four-lane divided cross-section through the
development, north of O'Kelly Chapel Road. Beyond these improvements, which have
been open to traffic for several years, no further improvements for study area
intersections are specifically planned for build-out of individual Stonewater PUD parcels.

Amberly PUD Improvements
Per developer's agreements made with the Town of Cary, improvements will be made
along O'Kelly Chapel Road adjacent to the Amberly PUD property frontage (west of
Green Level to Durham Road) to provide two eastbound through travel lanes. These
lanes, currently under construction and expected to be complete for the 2014 design
year, will terminate prior to the Stonewater Commercial site location and traffic will be
transitioned back to the existing two-lane cross section of O'Kelly Chapel Road.

Village at the Park PUD (Chancery Development) Improvements
Per information from Town of Cary staff, the Chancery development has made a recent
improvement to the eastbound approach on O'Kelly Chapel Road a t its intersection with
N.C. 55. An eastbound right-turn auxiliary lane was added to separate traffic flows at
the existing stop-controlled intersection.

A schematic of assumed/committed road improvements and laneage changes expected
to be complete by 2014 in the project study area is shown in Figure 5.


II. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT

Lands upon which the Stonewater Commercial site will be constructed are currently
cleared and graded. The general location of the proposed buildings and site access
roadway connections to Green Level to Durham Road and O'Kelly Chapel Road are
shown in the proposed site plan in Figure 2. Two development scenarios are studied in




                                            4
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

this report, both are assumed to be complete and fully occupied by 2014, with all
roadway improvements completed as shown on the site plan.

Development amendment Scenario #1
consists of 25,000 square feet of general
office space and a 5,000 square foot bank
with three drive-through lanes and an ATM
lane. No specifics are provided if the
separate land uses would be in a single
building, though the preliminary site plan
only shows one building footprint for both
development scenarios. The second
development amendment scenario includes
a single 15,500 square foot pharmacy                         TAR 317 SITE
building with two drive-through window
aisles. Parking for the proposed facilities in    O'Kelly Chapel Road Looking Eastbound
either scenario is to be provided on internal         at Green Level to Durham Road
surface parking lots that are only schematically shown (no defined number of parking
spaces given).

The site plan indicates a proposed external access connection to Green Level to
Durham Road, with the stipulation that it is limited to RIRO access. A second
connection is proposed along O'Kelly Chapel Road though the use of a current RIRO
driveway that serves existing apartment homes to the east of the site. Site access in
this vicinity is also proposed to directly connect the internal site driveways and parking
lot to an existing internal driveway for the apartment complex. No other external
roadway improvements are indicated on the site plan.


III. TRAFFIC IMPACTS

A. Trip Generation

The projected trips generated by the proposed Stonewater PUD Commercial
amendment scenarios are based on the ITE Trip Generation Manual (Institute of
Transportation Engineers, 8th Edition, 2007). ITE trip generating variables for these
land uses will be the gross leasable square footage for the office space and pharmacy
land uses, and the number of drive-through lanes for the bank land use, per NCDOT
Congestion Management Unit recommendations. In addition, trip generation results
also use the ITE average rate methodology to calculate the number of trips for the
proposed pharmacy and drive-in bank and the equation-based methodology to calculate
the number of trips for the office building, per NCDOT recommended practices.

Tables 2A and 2B, on the following pages, show the estimated number of trips
generated by each development scenario during the AM and PM peak hours of the
adjacent streets. No attempt was made to reduce the number of estimated site trips by


                                            5
                                         Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                           Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

a transit factor, due to the small amount of potential ridership in relation to total trips in
the study area and large bus headways. Pass-by trips were considered for this study,
for the pharmacy and drive-in bank land use types, using ITE and NCDOT estimates for
percentage of total trip reduction due to pass-by trips. A truck percentage of two
percent was used for all site-generated traffic.

Tables 2A and 2B also show the estimated trip generation data for the existing
approved development yield for the commercial site. The current development
application under review by the Town of Cary for the site is to construct a 10,200 square
foot pharmacy with drive-through capability ­the original PUD allowance for the parcel is
10,200 square feet of general commercial development. It was assumed that a 10,200
square foot pharmacy would be used as the "base" case for future scenario trip
generation ­ and this generation data would be applied to the site as if it were to exist
for the 2014 design year "No-Build" analysis. Trip generation for the "build" scenarios
would then represent a "net" impact above and beyond the "base" trip generat ion for the
site parcel.

Table 2A shows that, when fully developed in 2014, the Stonewater PUD Commercial
development scenario #1 will generate 71 total "net" site trips in the AM Peak hour, 111
total "net" trips in the PM Peak hour (which includes 0 pass-by trips), and 118 "net" trips
daily. Since calculations of generated trips are done as "net" differences between
"base" build-out scenario land uses and amendment scenarios, it is possible to have net
daily trips be less than the sum of the AM and PM peak hour trips, which is the case for
Scenario #1.

 As shown in Table 2B, development scenario #2 is expected to generate less net trips
than Scenario #1 for the AM and PM peak periods, with 14 net trips in the AM peak
hour, and 54 net trips (26 of these being "pass-by" trips) in the PM peak hour. Daily net
trip generation is higher for Scenario #2, with an expected 466 trips generated by this
amendment scenario over "base" conditions.




                                              6
                                                                                  Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                                                                    Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


                                                          Table 2A
                                           Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                                            Stonewater PUD Commercial Scenario #1
                                       ITE Land Use Code 710 ­ (General Office Building)
                                ITE Land Use Code 912 ­ (Drive-In Bank with Drive-Through Lanes)

                                                     Total Trips                  Pass-by Trips                 New Trips
 Development            Time      %     %
 Density               Period     In   Out      In      Out        Total     In        Out        Total    In     Out       Total
                        Daily    50%   50%     230      230         460     N/A        N/A         N/A    N/A     N/A        N/A
 25000 Sq Ft
                         AM      89%   11%      54        7          61       0         0           0     54        7         61
 General Office
                         PM      17%   83%      18       89         107       0         0           0     18       89        107
                        Daily    50%   50%     279      279         558     N/A        N/A         N/A    N/A     N/A        N/A
 Drive-In Bank w/
 4 Drive-Thru Lanes      AM      58%   42%      22       16          38       0         0           0     22       16         38
                         PM      49%   51%      54       56         110     25         26          52     29       30         58
                        Daily    50%   50%     509      509        1018     N/A        N/A         N/A    N/A     N/A        N/A
 Scenario #1
                         AM      77%   23%      76       23          99       0         0           0     76       23         99
 Subtotals
                         PM      33%   67%      72      145         217     25         26          52     47      119        165
 Subtracting Approved Development Density
 10,200 Square Feet   Daily  50% 50%      450           450        900      N/A        N/A        N/A     N/A     N/A       N/A
 Pharmacy with         AM    57% 43%       16            12         28       0          0          0      16      12        28
 Drive-Through         PM    50% 50%       53            53        106      26         26         52      27      27        54

                        Daily    50%   50%     59       59         118      N/A        N/A        N/A     N/A     N/A       N/A
 Net Trips               AM      85%   15%     60       11          71        0         0           0     60      11         71
                         PM      17%   83%     19       92         111       -1         0          -1     20      92        112

N/A ­ ITE Trip Generation Data Not Available




                                                                     7
                                                                                  Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                                                                    Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development



                                                          Table 2B
                                           Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                                            Stonewater PUD Commercial Scenario #2
                                     ITE Land Use Code 881 ­ (Pharmacy with Drive-Through)
                                           ITE Land Use Code 820 ­ (Shopping Center)

                                                     Total Trips                  Pass-by Trips                 New Trips
 Development            Time     %      %
 Density               Period    In    Out      In      Out        Total     In        Out        Total    In     Out       Total
 15,500 Square Feet     Daily   50%    50%     683      683        1366     N/A        N/A         N/A    N/A     N/A        N/A
 Pharmacy with           AM     57%    43%      24       18          42       0         0           0     24      18         42
 Drive-Through           PM     50%    50%      80       80         160     39         39          78     41      41         82
 Subtract
 10,200 Square Feet     Daily   50%    50%     450      450        900      N/A        N/A        N/A     N/A     N/A       N/A
 Pharmacy with           AM     57%    43%      16       12         28       0          0          0      16      12        28
 Drive-Through           PM     50%    50%      53       53        106      26         26         52      27      27        54

                        Daily   50%    50%     233      233        466      N/A        N/A        N/A     N/A     N/A       N/A
 Net Trips               AM     57%    43%       8        6         14       0          0          0       8       6        14
                         PM     50%    50%      27       27         54      13         13         26      14      14        28

N/A ­ ITE Trip Generation Data Not Available




                                                                     8
                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                          Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development



B. Site Trip Distribution and Assignment

Trip distribution estimates for the proposed Stonewater PUD Commercial development
amendment scenarios were developed from existing daily and peak hour traffic patterns
along the higher volume study area arterials. In addition, trip distribution estimates from
several previous Town of Cary TAR studies were compared to develop a similar trip
distribution pattern. The impact of the nearby interchange with N.C. 540 at N.C. 55 was
also considered, along with extremely heavy directional peak hour flows along N.C. 55.

Site-related trips were assumed to use the most convenient entrance/exit from the two
proposed access driveways shown on the Stonewater PUD Commercial preliminary site
plan. Access restrictions for site driveways were also considered and potential impacts
for traffic needing to make u-turns at full movement intersections were also included, as
applicable. Figure 6 shows the trip distribution percentages used for the 2014 site
traffic assignment. Figures 7-1 and 7-2 show the corresponding site traffic volume
assignments, based on the trip generation rates and projected distribution, for the 2014 l
build-out scenarios.

C. Background Traffic

There are numerous Town of Cary-approved developments in the study area that could
contribute to background traffic growth by the 2014 design year. Based on field
inspection and information from Town staff, the following developments were
considered to add to background traffic to their respective development yield in the
2014 analyses:

      Parkside Town Commons (Town of Cary 07-TAR-225) ­ 75% built-out
      Stonewater PUD (Town of Cary 02-TAR-130) ­ 50% remaining to be built-out
      Amberly PUD ­ Carolina Preserve Phase 3 ­ 100% built-out
      Alston Ridge Elementary School ­ 100% built-out (AM Peak traffic only)
      Pittard Sears Age-Restricted Residential ­ 100% built-out

Site traffic assignment for these background traffic generating developments was taken
directly from their respective traffic analysis reports and adjusted to the development
yields shown. These development yields represent a conservative estimate of
background traffic growth for the project study area. No area-wide ambient growth
projections are assumed for this study, as the specific background traffic growth
estimates would equate to five year ambient traffic growth percentages of 10% or more
per year for study area roadways.

There are several other developments under construction and/or expected to move
forward by the 2014 design year that are near the project study area. Though specific
site-related traffic volumes from these projects are not included in this analysis, and no
ambient area-wide growth estimates are included, it is important to note that some of


                                            9
                                         Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                           Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

the background studies within the study area, or just beyond it, are large projects, with
regional significance, and may yield trip-making patterns that do not necessarily ADD all
of their predicted traffic to the network, but may instead redistribute traffic, as trips from
local residential areas divert to the commercial development to be built in Parkside
Town Commons, for example, instead of traveling elsewhere beyond the study area.

These effects were not specifically studied in this report. Background generator traffic
data was adjusted for intersections in the TAR 317 study area that were not a part of the
original studies areas for these reports. Appendix C contains raw background
generator data and total background traffic assignment is shown in Figure 8.

D. 2014 Build-out Year Conditions

Figure 9 shows the 2014 peak hour traffic volumes as a sum of existing traffic volumes
and Town-approved background traffic generators in the study area that are expected to
generate traffic by 2014. This data also includes site traffic from the "base" site
condition, where a 10,200 square foot pharmacy with drive-through would be complete
and be open to traffic. Figures 10-1 and 10-2 display the 2014 projected study area
traffic volumes with site traffic from the Stonewater PUD Commercial additional
development scenarios added to 2014 without site traffic volume estimates.

The proposed site plan shows connectivity between two internal site driveways, the
existing Site Driveway access to O'Kelly Chapel Road and to an existing internal
driveway for the Tradition at Stonewater Apartment Complex to the east of the site. Per
instruction from Town of Cary staff, this cross-access was qualitatively analyzed to
assess potential impacts to traffic flow on and beyond the proposed TAR 317 site. The
following comments relate to this potential cross-access:

       The location of the internal intersection where traffic flows would converge is far
       enough from the O'Kelly Chapel Road intersection (about 125 feet) that little
       chance would exist for traffic spillback. Two-way stop control should exist for the
       westbound (from the apartment complex) and eastbound (from an internal
       driveway) approaches.

       The potential for site-related traffic using internal driveways through the
       apartment complex is low, as the current layout of internal driveways through the
       complex would likely not result in a time savings for trips to/from the site using
       O'Kelly Chapel Road to the east or Green Level to Durham Road to the north.

       The cross-access would allow local trips from the apartment complex to avoid
       using external street facilities to access the proposed site. The access would not
       provide any appreciable time savings for trips to/from the apartment complex to
       use the cross-access as a connection to either site driveway.




                                             10
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


IV. IMPACT ANALYSIS

A. Capacity Analysis Methodology

Evaluation of traffic operations on suburban arterials is most effective through the
determination of level of service (LOS) criteria. The concept of level of service
correlates qualitative aspects of traffic flow to quantitative terms. This enables
transportation professionals to take the qualitative issues, such as congestion and
substandard geometrics, and translate them into measurable quantities, such as
operating speeds and vehicular delays. The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM
2000) characterizes level of service by letter designations A through F. Level of Service
A represents ideal low-volume traffic operations, and level of service F represents over-
saturated high-volume traffic operations. Level of service is measured differently for
various highway facilities, but in general, level of service letter designations are
described by Table 3 on the next page.

The minimum acceptable level of service established for this project is LOS D based on
average peak hour volumes, or no increase in delay for intersections operating below
LOS D without the inclusion of site traffic. The following conditions were evaluated for
this analysis:

      Condition 1 - 2009 Existing Traffic
      Condition 2 - 2014 Traffic without Site Traffic (Includes Town-approved
      background generators and "base" Site Traffic from the TAR 317 site)
      Condition 3-1 - 2014 Traffic with Net Site Traffic Volumes for Build-Out
      Scenario #1 Added to Background Growth
      Condition 3-2 - 2014 Traffic with Net Site Traffic Volumes for Build-Out
      Scenario #2 Added to Background Growth
      Condition 4-1 - 2014 Traffic with Site Traffic for Scenario #1 and Improvements
      (for all intersections operating below LOS D, where applicable)
      Condition 4-2 - 2014 Traffic with Site Traffic for Scenario #2 and Improvements
      (for all intersections operating below LOS D, where applicable)




                                            11
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


                                      Table 3
                       Level of Service (LOS) Characteristics

Level of Service Description                       Per Vehicle Delay   Per Vehicle Delay
                                                    Signal Control       Stop Control
LOS A
 Free flow
                                                     < 10.0 sec          < 10.0 sec
 Freedom to select desired speed and to
  maneuver is extremely high
 General level of comfort and convenience for
  motorists is excellent
LOS B
 Stable flow
                                                   10.0 ­ 20.0 sec     10.0 ­ 15.0 sec
 Other vehicles in the traffic stream become
  noticeable
 Reduction in freedom to maneuver from LOS A
LOS C
 Stable flow
                                                   20.0 ­ 35.0 sec     15.0 ­ 25.0 sec
 Maneuverability and operating speed are
  significantly affected by other vehicles
 General level of comfort and convenience
  declines noticeably
LOS D
 High density but stable flow
                                                   35.0 ­ 55.0 sec     25.0 ­ 35.0 sec
 Speed and freedom to maneuver are severely
  restricted
 General level of comfort / convenience is poor
 Small increases in traffic will generally cause
  operational problems
LOS E
 Unstable flow
                                                   55.0 ­ 80.0 sec     35.0 ­ 50.0 sec
 Speed reduced to lower but relatively uniform
  value
 Volumes at or near capacity level
 Comfort and convenience are extremely poor
 Small flow increases or minor traffic stream
  disturbances will cause breakdowns
LOS F
 Forced or breakdown flow
                                                     > 80.0 sec          > 50.0 sec
 Volumes exceed roadway capacity
 Formation of unstable queues
 Stoppages for long periods of time because of
  traffic congestion




                                           12
                                          Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                           Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


The results of this analysis are based on the LOS and delay procedures presented in
the HCM 2000. To obtain optimized signal timings for the future traffic signals, the
timing optimization software Synchro Professional Version 7.0 was used to evaluate an
optimal cycle length for the given existing timing and phasing parameters and existing
volumes. The methodology of evaluating signalized intersections is presented below:

   Condition 1 ­ No traffic signals operating in the study area.

   Build-Out/Future Year Conditions ­ Reoptimize the cycle lengths and splits of individual
   intersections in Synchro. As in Condition 1, adjust split timings to allow the overall
   intersection to operate at LOS D, or better, if possible. Signal operations between the No-
   Build and Build scenarios were held constant, if applicable, to provide a basis of comparison
   between the two scenarios.

   Build-Out/Future Year Condition Improvements ­ Adjust signal cycle lengths and offsets
   will be optimized to ensure best progression schemes for through traffic, in this case. Also,
   evaluate the potential for different signal phasing schemes (left-turn lag phases, for
   example). Retain existing split minimums and any pedestrian timing values.
   Recommendations, if warranted, will be made to obtain at least LOS D for the intersection
   as a whole.

The net effect of this process is that direct comparisons, by movement, of delay and
LOS between each of the scenarios are impossible because splits and cycle lengths
can and do change between scenarios. The pertinent statistic of this analysis is the
overall intersection level of service and delay. Improvements to deficient intersections
in Condition 3 were made by first attempting to create an optimally progressed signal
system with acceptable adjustments to signal phasing, if feasible. If that did not
produce satisfactory results for individual intersections, geometric improvements to
improve intersection capacity were considered for the deficient intersections.

Unsignalized intersections were analyzed in the HCS+ software, using HCM delay and
LOS formulas. Their results were evaluated on a per-movement basis, since HCM
methods do not produce overall intersection level of service for unsignalized
intersections. Thus, intersections with deficient movements in the Build scenarios may
need to have the movements evaluated for improvements. This methodology differs
from signalized intersections, where one or more movements at an intersection may be
deficient in the Build scenario, but as long as the overall intersection level of service
does not fall below LOS D, no intersection improvements were deemed necessary.

If HCM analyses indicated abnormally large per-vehicle delay values for relatively low
approach volumes, the intersection under study was input into a traffic microsimulation
model to produce a comparable peak hour evaluation. If the simulation model delay
results indicate wide discrepancies in the per-vehicle delay for the affected movements,
the simulation values will be used instead of the HCM formula results in determining the
need for additional mitigation due to site traffic impact.




                                               13
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

The N.C. 55 / O'Kelly Chapel Road traffic signal anticipated to be complete for the
future 2014 Conditions was evaluated as an actuated/coordinated signal, based on
phasing schemes from signal plans provided by Town of Cary staff. No coordinated
signal timing data was currently available for this signal, so typical NCDOT signal timing
parameters were used for analysis. Appendix D contains the Synchro output for all
Conditions 2, 3 and 4, for all future signalized intersections under study. Appendix E
contains output from HCS+ for the unsignalized intersections in the study area.

Tables 4A and 4B, on the following pages, summarize intersection and critical
movement LOS and vehicle delay details for all study area intersections. Following the
tables, a synopsis of each analysis scenario is presented.




                                           14
                                                                                                                                                                 Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                                                                                                                                                   Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


                                                                                                      Table 4A
                                                                                Level of Service Results for Study Area Intersections

                                                                                Condition 1        Condition 2       Condition 3-1        Condition 3-2          Condition 4-1                Condition 4-2
Intersection                                                                   Existing Traffic   (2014 No Site)   (2014 W/Site #1)     (2014 W/Site #2)   (2014 Mitigated W/Site #1)   (2014 Mitigated W/Site #2)
                                                                               AM          PM     AM        PM      AM         PM        AM         PM         AM            PM             AM             PM
O'Kelly Chapel Road & N.C. 55                                                  N/A        N/A      D          F      D          F         D          F          C             F              C              F

NB LT                                                                           A          F      E          F      E          F         E          F           D             F             D               F
NB TH                                                                          N/A        N/A     C          B      C          B         C          B           C             B             C               B
NB RT                                                                          N/A        N/A     A          A      A          A         A          A           A             A             A               A
SB U-TURN/LT                                                                    C          A      E          F      E          F         E          F           E             E             E               E
SB TH                                                                          N/A        N/A     D          F      D          F         D          F           C             F             C               F
SB RT                                                                          N/A        N/A     C          C      C          C         C          C           B             B             B               B
EB LT                                                                           F          F      F          F      F          F         F          F           E             F             E               F
EB TH                                                                          N/A        N/A     E          E      E          E         E          E           E             D             E               D
EB RT                                                                           B          F      D          F      D          F         D          F           D             F             D               F
WB LT                                                                          N/A        N/A     E          F      E          F         E          F           E             F             E               F
WB TH                                                                          N/A        N/A     E          F      E          F         E          F           E             E             E               E
WB RT                                                                          N/A        N/A     D          D      D          D         D          D           D             D             D               D

O'Kelly Chapel Road & Existing Site Driveway (RIRO)                            N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A         N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A

SB RT                                                                           A          B      B          D      B          F         B          D           B             C             A               B

Green Level to Durham Road & O'Kelly Chapel Road (old alignment)                A         N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A         N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A

NB LTRT                                                                         C          F      F          F      F          F         F          F          N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A
WB LT                                                                           A          B      A          D      A          E         A          D          N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A

Green Level to Durham Road & O'Kelly Chapel Road (new alignment)               N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          D             D             D               D

NB LT                                                                          N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          D             F             D               F
NB THRT                                                                        N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          E             E             E               E
SB LT/U-TURN                                                                    C          D       F         F      F          F         F          F           E             F             E               F
SB TH                                                                          N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          E             F             E               F
SB RT                                                                           B          B       C         C      C          C         C          C           E             D             C               D
EB LTTH                                                                         A          A       B         A      B          B         B          B          N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A
EB LT                                                                          N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          E             E             E               E
EB TH                                                                          N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          C             E             C               E
EB RT                                                                          N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          A             D             A               C
WB LT/U-TURN                                                                   N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          F             D             F               D
WB THRT                                                                        N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A          A             A             A               A

Green Level to Durham Road & Proposed Site Driveway (RIRO)                     N/A        N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A       N/A        N/A         N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A

WB RT                                                                          N/A        N/A     B          A      B          A         B          A           B             A             B               A

N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made




                                                                                                           15
                                                                                                                                                                  Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                                                                                                                                                    Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


                                                                                                         Table 4B
                                                                               Vehicular Delay (Sec/Veh) Results for Study Area Intersections

                                                                                   Condition 1        Condition 2       Condition 3-1      Condition 3-2          Condition 4-1                Condition 4-2
Intersection                                                                      Existing Traffic   (2014 No Site)   (2014 W/Site #1)   (2014 W/Site #2)   (2014 Mitigated W/Site #1)   (2014 Mitigated W/Site #2)
                                                                                  AM          PM     AM        PM      AM         PM      AM         PM         AM            PM             AM             PM
O'Kelly Chapel Road & N.C. 55                                                     N/A        N/A     35.2     159.3    35.5      162.8    35.3      159.6       33.2         115.1          33.2          111.1

NB LT                                                                              9.1      158.4    57.9     326.0   58.9      333.4    57.8      326.7       41.8          107.8          41.3           103.3
NB TH                                                                             N/A        N/A     23.1     12.8    23.2      12.9     23.2      12.8        22.1           12.4          22.0           12.3
NB RT                                                                             N/A        N/A      7.4      5.7     74        5.7      7.4       5.7         7.0            5.6           7.0            5.6
SB U-TURN/LT                                                                      20.6       8.5     67.1     80.0    67.1      80.0     67.1      80.0        65.9           78.5          65.9           78.5
SB TH                                                                             N/A        N/A     37.1     211.8   40.2      211.8    37.2      211.8       35.4          139.3          32.5           139.3
SB RT                                                                             N/A        N/A     21.5     21.5    21.9      21.6     21.5      21.6        17.4           15.3          17.4           15.4
EB LT                                                                             72.2        *      81.9     104.3   82.1      117.7    82.4      105.8       72.8           96.2          73.0           92.0
EB TH                                                                             N/A        N/A     57.9     64.4    57.7      64.0     57.8      64.2        57.5           51.8          58.0           51.5
EB RT                                                                             11.2      100.8    36.9     139.3   36.1      163.6    36.9      143.1       46.0          244.4          46.0           217.3
WB LT                                                                             N/A        N/A     69.9     104.9   69.8      101.8    69.9      104.4       69.9          120.4          69.9           124.3
WB TH                                                                             N/A        N/A     69.9     103.3   69.9      103.3    69.9      103.3       65.1           73.3          65.1           73.3
WB RT                                                                             N/A        N/A     47.8     46.7    47.8      46.7     47.8      46.7        52.8           48.7          52.8           48.7

O'Kelly Chapel Road & Existing Site Driveway (RIRO)                                N/A       N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A         N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A

SB RT                                                                              9.7       12.4    12.4     29.7    12.4       71.2    12.5       34.7       10.0           15.7          10.0           14.0

Green Level to Durham Road & O'Kelly Chapel Road (old alignment)                   N/A       N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A         N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A

NB LTRT                                                                           20.7       52.0    524.8     *      597.6       *      567.4       *          N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A
WB LT                                                                              7.7       10.5     9.1     28.6     9.1       38.9     9.1       30.0        N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A

Green Level to Durham Road & O'Kelly Chapel Road (new alignment)                   N/A       N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A        40.6           44.9          38.5           43.5

NB LT                                                                             N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A        47.1          89.9         47.9            89.9
NB THRT                                                                           N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A        61.1          61.4         61.1            61.4
SB LT/U-TURN                                                                      17.6       27.9    886.3    1665    1071       1325    891.8      1774        68.4          97.0         67.9            96.6
SB TH                                                                             N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A        67.0          90.7         67.0            90.7
SB RT                                                                             11.0       10.4    15.5     21.2    15.4       20.5    15.3       21.6        71.9          49.7         21.4            49.6
EB LTTH                                                                            8.8        7.9    11.5     10.0    11.8       10.1    11.5       10.1        N/A           N/A           N/A            N/A
EB LT                                                                             N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A        68.1          75.3         67.6            75.9
EB TH                                                                             N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A        27.3          59.8         26.7            56.2
EB RT                                                                             N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A         4.8          35.8          4.8            34.6
WB LT/U-TURN                                                                      N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A       100.5          43.6         101.0           38.9
WB THRT                                                                           N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A         9.8           6.9          8.9             6.4

Green Level to Durham Road & Proposed Site Driveway (RIRO)                         N/A       N/A     N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A         N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A

WB RT                                                                              N/A       N/A     10.1      8.8    10.2       9.0     10.1       9.0        10.2           9.0           10.1            9.0

N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made
* - No Movement Capacity, Delay Theoretically Infinite




                                                                                                             16
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development


B. Capacity Analysis Results for Study Area Intersections

   i.) Condition 1 ­ Existing 2009
   As shown in Tables 4A and 4B, two intersections in the project study area currently
   operate over capacity for stop-controlled minor street turning movements in the
   existing 2009 AM and PM peak hour capacity analyses. The existing stop-controlled
   eastbound left-turn movement at the N.C. 55 and O'Kelly Chapel Road intersection
   is over capacity in both AM and PM peak hours, as is the northbound (PM) left-turn
   movement on N.C. 55. The northbound stop-controlled approach at Green Level to
   Durham Road/O'Kelly Chapel Road operates at a LOS F in the PM peak hour.

   ii.) Condition 2 ­ 2014 Without Site Traffic
   The addition of Town-approved background traffic generators would substantially
   increase delays at all intersections in 2014, but the effects of the considerable
   increase in traffic volumes will be partially offset at the N.C. 55/O'Kelly Chapel Road
   intersection by roadway improvements associated with the Parkside Town
   Commons development expected to be complete by the 2014 design year. Even
   with improved laneage and traffic signal installation, the intersection of O'Kelly
   Chapel Road and N.C. 55 is expected to operate at a deficient LOS F in the PM
   peak hour. The stop-controlled approaches at the offset intersection of O'Kelly
   Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road are expected to operate at a LOS F
   in both peak hours, as no developer-related projects were assumed to mitigate
   capacity issues in this vicinity by the 2014 analysis year.

   iii.) Conditions 3-1 and 3-2 ­ 2014 With Site Traffic
   The addition of traffic generated by the Stonewater PUD Commercial site
   development amendment scenarios will marginally increase delays for all study area
   intersections in the AM and PM peak hours, as shown in the LOS and delay tables.
   No new operational deficiencies for the N.C. 55/O'Kelly Chapel Road signalized
   intersection or unsignalized critical movements at existing intersections are expected
   due to site traffic impact, with one exception. The RIRO Site Driveway intersection
   with O'Kelly Chapel Road will experience increased traffic volumes at the
   southbound approach due to "base" 2014 No-Build traffic from the site parcel as it is
   now approved and "net" trips from the development amendment scenarios. In the
   case of Scenario #1, site traffic assignment at this approach is expected to result in
   a LOS F in the PM peak hour, as the number of acceptable gaps is limited by high
   westbound traffic volumes and only one westbound travel lane.

   iv.) Conditions 4-1 and 4-2 ­ 2014 Mitigated With Site Traffic
   To mitigate operational deficiencies at the N.C. 55 intersection with O'Kelly Chapel
   Road, the most beneficial improvement tested was to add an additional westbound
   travel lane on O'Kelly Chapel Road west of the intersection to form the northern two
   lanes of an ultimate six-lane divided facility. This improvement allows intersection
   designs shown in the Parkside Town Commons site plan to operate more efficiently,
   as PM peak hour deficient operations are improved by 45 seconds per vehicle due


                                           17
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

   to the ability to use both northbound left-turn lanes in the Parkside Town Commons
   roadway plans and to restripe the westbound approach proposed by the
   development for two through travel lanes. The eastbound approach to the
   intersection was analyzed to extend the existing right-turn lane to accommodate
   future traffic volumes.

   To mitigate operational deficiencies at the proposed Green Level to Durham
   Road/O'Kelly Chapel Road intersection, the intersection was analyzed as being
   realigned as a four-legged, signal controlled intersection. Additional turn lanes and
   upstream and downstream laneage improvements were also analyzed for the
   eastbound, westbound, and northbound approaches for both 2014 AM and PM peak
   hours. Realignment of the intersection also has impacts on the direction of traffic
   flow at each approach, since there is some current traffic that must make left-turns
   and immediate right-turns to travel on Green Level to Durham Road through the two
   existing intersections. Redistributed traffic volumes for a four-legged intersection at
   this location are shown in Figure 11.

   The site development amendment Scenario #1 adds enough "net" site traffic to
   cause the O'Kelly Chapel Road/Existing Site Driveway intersection to operate at a
   LOS F in the 2014 PM peak hour. Mitigation for this intersection was assumed to
   include an additional westbound travel lane (via restriping the existing two way
   roadway for two westbound lanes) and adding a westbound right-turn lane. Both
   improvements are also needed for consistency with nearby improvements at O'Kelly
   Chapel Road/Green Level to Durham Road and adherence to Town of Cary APFO
   requirements and Comprehensive Transportation Plan recommendations.

V. SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS

A summary of intersection capacity analysis and the effect of site traffic from the
Stonewater PUD Commercial development amendment scenarios on individual study
area intersections is presented below, along with a discussion of necessary mitigation
for the 2014 design year.        Figure 12 presents all recommended mitigation
improvements above and beyond what is expected to be constructed/improved by
developer-related agreements with the Town of Cary.

O'Kelly Chapel Road and N.C. 55
This intersection is currently a stop-controlled T-intersection and operates over capacity
for the O'Kelly Road approach in the AM and PM peak hours. Significant changes to
the intersection are expected by 2014, as the adjacent Parkside Town Commons
development will add an extension to O'Kelly Chapel Road to the east of N.C. 55 (see
Figure 5 for details). Even with improvements recommended in the TAR 225 - Parkside
Town Commons study and shown on site development plans, the intersection is
expected to operate at a LOS F in the 2014 design year PM peak hour, with or without
site-generated traffic from the Stonewater PUD Commercial development amendment
scenarios.




                                           18
                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                          Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

The recommended improvements beyond what is shown for the Parkside Town
Commons development plan to mitigate operational problems at the intersection are the
following (see Figure 12 for additional detail):

          Construct an additional westbound through travel lane on O'Kelly Chapel
          Road west of the intersection.
          Lengthen the existing eastbound right-turn lane from 250 feet to 1,200 feet to
          accommodate heavy eastbound right-turn volumes.
          Restripe the interim striping concept for the northbound left-turn movement to
          allow dual left-turn lanes.
          Restripe the proposed westbound approach to include two through travel
          lanes and one right-turn lane instead of one through travel lane and two right-
          turn lanes.
          Re-optimize the signal timings/upgrade the signal heads to accommodate
          these changes.

These improvements are required to meet Town of Cary APFO thresholds at this
intersection and apply to both development scenarios. The implementation of the
proposed improvements will cut per-vehicle delay by 45 seconds in the PM peak hour,
but will not improve overall LOS in the PM peak hour to an acceptable level. However,
mitigation improvements allow the intersection to operate better than 2014 No-Build
conditions, thus no further improvements are necessary at the intersection to meet
Town of Cary Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance standards.

If the Parkside Town Commons development project does not proceed as planned, and
no improvements as shown on site plans for this development are carried out, this
intersection will continue to experience capacity deficiencies even without anticipated
traffic volume increases due to the Parkside Town Commons development. Though not
specifically analyzed in this report, this scenario would require, at a minimum, the
installation of a traffic signal at this intersection to meet Town of Cary APFO standards.

O'Kelly Chapel Road and Green Level to Durham Road
This intersection is currently split into two T-intersections at O'Kelly Chapel Road, since
Green Level to Durham Road is aligned into two separate roadways. Current traffic
operations at these intersections are deficient for the northbound stop-controlled Green
Level to Durham Road approach during the PM peak hour, and projected traffic
volumes in the immediate area are expected to increase significantly with new
development, causing both stop-controlled approaches to experience LOS F conditions
in both AM and PM peak hours by 2014 with or without site-related net traffic volumes.
No current developer agreements or Town of Cary/NCDOT plans exist to improve the
intersections by the 2014 design year.

To mitigate existing and future expected capacity deficiencies, and to allow for safe u-
turn operations that will be necessary in this area due to restricted access site
driveways for the TAR 317 parcel, the primary recommendation is to realign the
southern leg of Green Level to Durham Road to align with the newer median-divided


                                            19
                                       Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

cross-section.   The following laneage changes/improvements, by approach, are
necessary to allow adequate capacity during anticipated 2014 traffic demands for either
development scenario:

      Northbound Green Level to Durham Road
      Construct two northbound travel lanes and an exclusive northbound left-turn lane
      with at least 225' of storage. Construct one southbound through travel lane.

      Eastbound O'Kelly Chapel Road
      Construct the southern portion of a four-lane divided cross-section along O'Kelly
      Chapel Road to tie in to the cross-section being constructed as part of the
      Amberly Developer's Agreement. This would allow two westbound travel lanes
      (restriping the existing two-way roadway) and two eastbound travel lanes west of
      Green Level to Durham Road. Also, construct an eastbound left-turn storage bay
      with at least 250' of storage.

      Southbound Green Level to Durham Road
      Restripe the existing southbound intersection approach to allow the use of
      currently striped-off pavement for a left-turn bay with 225' of storage. Restripe
      the current left-turn lane as a through travel lane.

      Westbound O'Kelly Chapel Road
      Convert the existing two-way laneage on O'Kelly Chapel Road to the east of
      Green Level to Durham Road to two westbound travel lanes. Widen the existing
      roadway to the north for an additional lane that would function as a right-turn
      drop lane along the site frontage (to meet Town of Cary Comprehensive
      Transportation Plan requirements for an ultimate six-lane cross-section in this
      vicinity). Construct a westbound left-turn storage bay with at least 300' of
      storage. Construct a median-divided eastbound through travel lane from Green
      Level to Durham Road that would eventually tie into the existing cross-section
      near N.C. 55. Provide a u-turn bulb-out, or adequate pavement width for the
      eastbound travel lane to allow for westbound u-turn movements.

      Overall Intersection
      Install traffic signal with protected left-turn phasing for all approaches to allow u-
      turn movements.

These improvements are schematically shown in Figure 12. These improvements are
required, as a minimum, to meet Town of Cary APFO thresholds. No further mitigation
is necessary if the improvements described above are constructed to provide adequate
capacity for anticipated traffic volumes in the 2014 site build-out year.

O'Kelly Chapel Road and Existing Site Driveway
The preliminary Stonewater PUD Commercial development amendment overall site
plan (Figure 2) shows this existing site driveway to have limited access to O'Kelly
Chapel Road.     Operational analyses indicate that the intersection will operate


                                           20
                                      Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 317-DRAFT
                         Stonewater PUD Amendment ­ Proposed Commercial Development

acceptably in the 2014 AM and PM peak hours for site development scenario #2. Site
development scenario #1 is anticipated to cause the southbound stop-controlled
approach to operate at a LOS F in the PM peak hour. Due to larger-scale
recommended improvements to O'Kelly Chapel Road for its intersections at Green
Level to Durham Road and N.C. 55, the following mitigation improvements are
recommended at this location:

      Restripe the existing two-way laneage on O'Kelly Chapel Road in the intersection
      vicinity for two westbound travel lanes.

      Construct a median-divided eastbound through travel lane through this vicinity.

      Construct a westbound right-turn deceleration lane (to meet Town of Cary
      Comprehensive Transportation Plan recommendations for an ultimate six-lane
      cross-section on O'Kelly Chapel Road in this vicinity) with at least 150 feet of
      storage.

These improvements are required to meet Town of Cary APFO thresholds for site
development scenario #1 at this specific intersection, and are required to meet APFO
thresholds for both development scenarios in coordination with requirements at adjacent
intersections.

Green Level to Durham Road and Proposed Site Driveway
Capacity Analyses for 2014 design year conditions indicate that this intersection should
operate acceptably in both peak hours. No further improvements are recommended at
this intersection.

Proposed Cross-Access to Existing Tradition at Stonewater Apartment Complex
No specific operations analyses were conducted for this proposed cross-access
connection from the site to an existing internal circulation driveway to the east of the
site. In general, the proposed cross-access should allow local trips from the apartment
complex to/from the site to avoid using external roadways and should not promote
external trips seeking access to the site to route their trip through the apartment
complex or promote apartment complex traffic to use the internal driveways at the site
for external access.




                                          21
Appendix A ­ Figures
                                      LEGEND
                                        Existing
                                        Intersections
                                        Existing Site
                                        Driveway
                                        Proposed Site
                                        Driveway




SITE

                                                 NC 540
Green Level to Durham Road




                                      Town of Cary TAR 317
                                     Stonewater PUD Amendment
                              N       Commercial Development
                                       SITE LOCATION MAP
                              NOT       DATE: September 2009
                              TO
                             SCALE           FIGURE 1
                                       PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
     NOT       Town of Cary TAR 317
     TO     Stonewater PUD Amendment    DATE: September 2009
N
    SCALE    Commercial Development
                                            FIGURE 2
            NOT
                                                O'Kelly Chapel Road
  N         TO
           SCALE                                      (Future)




                                                                     275'

              55                                                              50
                                                300'                 250'




                          Site
                       Driveway




                    Proposed
                       Site        TAR                 125'
                    Driveway       317                                                    Green
                                   SITE                                                  Level to
                                                                                         Durham
                                                                                          Road


 Green
Level to
Durham                                    225' (Future)
 Road




                                                         O'Kelly
                                                       Chapel Road



           LEGEND                                                       EXISTING LANEAGE
                                  Town of Cary TAR 317
GEOMETRICS, SPEED LIMITS,      Stonewater PUD Amendment                 DATE: September 2009
  AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                Commercial Development
       AS SHOWN                                                             FIGURE 3
            NOT                                             O'Kelly Chapel Road
  N          TO                                                   (Future)
           SCALE



                              1945                                                                       2133
                                                                                1916 (470)               (693)
                              (488)
                                                                                217 (223)

                55
                                                             1 (2)
                              394                      374 (1861)                                         562
                                                                             28 188
                             (2054)                      19 (191)                                        (2046)
                                                                            (16) (185)


                                                                0 235
                                                  0            (6) (524)
                                                 (6)
                                Site
                             Driveway
                                                              6 (6)
                                                  6                            194
                                                 (6)                          (159)

                      Proposed
                                                              204 20
                         Site               TAR              (200) (326)                          345
                      Driveway              317                                42 (26)            (92)        Green
                                            SITE                               303 (66)                      Level to
                                                                                                             Durham
                                                                                                  60          Road
                                                                            152 40               (690)
                                                              255 252
             319                                                           (133) (364)
                                                              (52) (214)
 Green       (70)
                                      319 (70)
Level to
Durham
 Road                                                      23 (249)         64 169
              34                                            11 (86)
             (335)                                                         (18) (248)




                                                                263             233
                                                               (300)           (266)


                                                                   O'Kelly
                                                                 Chapel Road



           LEGEND                                                              2009 EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                         Town of Cary TAR 317
      XXX = AM Peak Hour              Stonewater PUD Amendment                           DATE: September 2009

      (XXX) = PM Peak Hour             Commercial Development
                                                                                             FIGURE 4
            NOT
  N         TO                                   O'Kelly Chapel Road
           SCALE



                                                                     350'

                                              375'     350'
                                                                     300'
                                                                     FUTURE
              55

                                                300'
                                                              200'   250'
                                                375'




                            Site
                         Driveway




                    Proposed
                       Site         TAR                125'
                    Driveway        317                                                       Green
                                    SITE                                                     Level to
                                                                                             Durham
                                                                                              Road


 Green
Level to
Durham                                     225' (Future)
 Road




                                                         O'Kelly
           LEGEND                                      Chapel Road
      = PARKSIDE TOWN COMMONS                                   2014 BACKGROUND IMPROVEMENTS
      SITE PLAN & SIGNAL PLAN
                                   Town of Cary TAR 317
      = STONEWATER PUD                                                      DATE: September 2009
      DEVELOPER AGREEMENT       Stonewater PUD Amendment
      = AMBERLY PUD              Commercial Development
      DEVELOPER AGREEMENT                                                       FIGURE 5
             NOT                                               O'Kelly Chapel Road
    N        TO                                                      (Future)
            SCALE



                                 30%                                                                     30%
                                (15%)                                                                   (15%)
                                                                                 30% (15%)

                   55

                                 15%                                                                     15%
                                (30%)                                         30% 15%                   (30%)
                                                        15% (30%)            (15%) (30%)


                                                                  45%
                                                     45%         (45%)
                                                    (45%)
                                  Site
                               Driveway
                                                     85%          85%          45%
                                                    (85%)        (85%)        (45%)

                        Proposed                        25% 15% 45%
                           Site              TAR       (25%) (15%) (45%)                        15%
                        Driveway             317                                               (15%)
                                                                                                            Green
                                             SITE                               15% (15%)
                                                                                                           Level to
                    15%             55%                                                                    Durham
                   (15%)           (55%)
                                                                                                            Road
                                                                                                 15%
                                                                15% 25%                         (15%)
               15%                                             (15%) (25%)
  Green       (15%)                     55% (55%)
 Level to
 Durham
  Road                                                      15% (15%)         25%
                15%
               (15%)                                                         (25%)



                                                                 25%            25%
                                                                (25%)          (25%)


                                                                     O'Kelly
                                                                   Chapel Road



            LEGEND                                                               2014 SITE TRIP DISTRIBUTION %
                                           Town of Cary TAR 317
XX% / XX%    = AM Peak Hr Enter/Exit    Stonewater PUD Amendment                       DATE: September 2009
                                         Commercial Development
(XX%) / (XX%) = PM Peak Hr Enter/Exit                                                        FIGURE 6
             NOT                                                O'Kelly Chapel Road
    N         TO                                                      (Future)
            SCALE



                                  3                                                                           18
                                 (13)                                                                         (3)
                                                                                     18 (3)

                     55

                                   9                                                                           2
                                  (6)                                           3           2                 (28)
                                                                               (13)        (28)
                                                                9 (6)

                                                                        27
                                                     27                 (9)
                                                     (9)

                                   Site
                                Driveway
                                                      9             9            5
                                                     (78)          (78)         (41)

                            Proposed
                                                             3    1     5
                               Site           TAR           (23) (14) (41)                              9
                            Driveway          317                                                      (3)
                                                                                                                  Green
                                              SITE                                   9 (3)
                                                                                                                 Level to
                      2             33                                                                           Durham
                     (14)          (11)
                                                                                                                  Road
                                                                                                        1
                                                                     9 3                               (14)
               2                                                    (3) (23)
  Green       (14)                      33 (11)
 Level to
 Durham
  Road                                                            9 (3)        15
                9
               (3)                                                             (5)



                                                                    3                15
                                                                   (23)              (5)


                                                                       O'Kelly
                                                                     Chapel Road
                                                                                                    SCENARIO #1


            LEGEND                                                                   2014 SITE TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT
                                             Town of Cary TAR 317
XX% / XX%    = AM Peak Hr Enter/Exit      Stonewater PUD Amendment                            DATE: September 2009
                                           Commercial Development
(XX%) / (XX%) = PM Peak Hr Enter/Exit                                                             FIGURE 7-1
             NOT                                                 O'Kelly Chapel Road
    N         TO                                                       (Future)
            SCALE



                                   2                                                                                 3
                                  (2)                                                                               (2)
                                                                                         3 (2)

                     55

                                    1                                                                                1
                                   (4)                                              2           1                   (4)
                                                                                   (2)         (4)
                                                                 1 (4)

                                                                    4
                                                        4          (12)* (-6)*
                                                      (12)*

                                    Site
                                 Driveway
                                                                 5 (23)*
                                                        5                             3
                                                      (23)*                          (6)

                             Proposed
                                                               1   1    3
                                Site               TAR        (4) (2) (11)*                                    1
                             Driveway              317                                                        (2)
                                                                                                                       Green
                                                   SITE                                  1 (2)
                                                                                                                      Level to
                       1              4                                                                               Durham
                      (4)*          (15)*
                                                                                                                       Road
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                 (-5)*                        (2)
                                                                     1    1
                1                                                   (4)* (4)
  Green        (2)                       4 (15)*
                                           (-2)*
 Level to
 Durham
  Road          1                                                 1 (4)*          2
                                                                   (-2)*         (7)* (-3)*
               (2)



                                                                      1                   2
                                                                     (4)                 (4)


                                                                        O'Kelly
                                                                      Chapel Road
    * - Includes PM Peak Pass-by Trips                                                                     SCENARIO #2


            LEGEND                                                                       2014 SITE TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT
                                             Town of Cary TAR 317
XX% / XX%    = AM Peak Hr Enter/Exit      Stonewater PUD Amendment                                   DATE: September 2009
                                           Commercial Development
(XX%) / (XX%) = PM Peak Hr Enter/Exit                                                                  FIGURE 7-2
            NOT                                                  O'Kelly Chapel Road
  N         TO                                                         (Future)
           SCALE
                                                                    234               162
                                                                   (505)             (241)
                                                             60 61 113
                                   393                                                 46 (116)                 497
                                                             (6) (166) (333)
                                  (188)                                                234 (110)               (613)
                                                                                       217 (387)
                55

                                   194                        79 (120)                                          487
                                  (376)                                            99 57 294                   (829)
                                                              80 (113)
                                                                                  (72) (31) (383)
                                                              35 (143)

                                                                    7 273
                                                       7           (24) (574)
                                                      (24)
                                    Site
                                 Driveway
                                                                 10 (45)
                                                       10                            358
                                                      (45)                          (416)

                       Proposed
                                                               273 5        5
                          Site                  TAR           (484) (113) (24)                          107
                       Driveway                 317                                  11 (8)             (40)       Green
                                                SITE                                 96 (32)                      Level to
                      2                9                                                                          Durham
                     (8)              (25)
                                                                                                         87        Road
                            2                                                     343 82               (204)
                                                                   192 177
             265           (8)                                                   (384) (91)
                                                                  (125) (395)
 Green      (133)                         9 (25)
                                          263 (125)
Level to
Durham
 Road         208                                                  3 (8)          77 255
             (181)                                            170 (120)          (25) (355)
                                                                35 (53)


                                                                    212               332
                                                                   (448)             (380)


                                                                        O'Kelly
                                                                      Chapel Road



           LEGEND                                                                     2014 TOTAL BACKGROUND TRAFFIC
                                             Town of Cary TAR 317
      XXX = AM Peak Hour                  Stonewater PUD Amendment                             DATE: September 2009

      (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                 Commercial Development
                                                                                                    FIGURE 8
            NOT                                                   O'Kelly Chapel Road
  N         TO                                                          (Future)
           SCALE
                                                                      234              162
                                                                     (505)            (241)
                                                              60 61 113
                                  2338                                                  46 (116)                 2630
                                                              (6) (166) (333)
                                  (676)                                                 2150 (580)              (1306)
                                                                                        434 (610)
                55
                                                                   1 (2)
                                  588                          79 (120)                                          1049
                                 (2430)                                            127 57 482                   (2875)
                                                             454 (1974)
                                                                                   (88) (31) (568)
                                                               54 (334)

                                                                    7    508
                                                       7           (30) (1098)
                                                      (30)
                                    Site
                                 Driveway
                                                                  16 (51)
                                                       16                             552
                                                      (51)                           (575)

                       Proposed
                                                                477 25 5
                          Site                  TAR            (684) (439) (24)                          452
                       Driveway                 317                                   53 (34)           (132)        Green
                                                SITE                                  399 (98)                      Level to
                      2                9                                                                            Durham
                     (8)              (25)
                                                                                                         147         Road
                            2                                                      495 122              (894)
                                                                     447 429
             584           (8)                                                    (517) (455)
                                                                    (177) (609)
 Green      (203)                         9 (25)
                                          582 (195)
Level to
Durham
 Road         242                                                   3 (8)          141 424
             (516)                                             193 (369)           (43) (603)
                                                                46 (139)


                                                                     475               565
                                                                    (748)             (646)


                                                                         O'Kelly
                                                                       Chapel Road



           LEGEND                                                                            2014 TRAFFIC WITHOUT SITE
                                             Town of Cary TAR 317
      XXX = AM Peak Hour                  Stonewater PUD Amendment                              DATE: September 2009

      (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                 Commercial Development
                                                                                                     FIGURE 9
            NOT                                                     O'Kelly Chapel Road
  N         TO                                                            (Future)
           SCALE
                                                                        234              162
                                                                       (505)            (241)
                                                                60 61 113
                                    2341                                                  46 (116)                  2648
                                                                (6) (166) (333)
                                    (689)                                                 2150 (580)               (1309)
                                                                                          452 (613)
                55
                                                                     1 (2)
                                    597                          79 (120)                                           1051
                                   (2436)                                            130 57 484                    (2903)
                                                               454 (1974)
                                                                                    (101) (31) (596)
                                                                 63 (340)

                                                                      34    508
                                                         34          (39) (1098)
                                                        (39)
                                      Site
                                   Driveway
                                                                   25 (129)
                                                         25                             557
                                                        (129)                          (616)

                       Proposed
                                                                 480 26 10
                          Site                    TAR           (707) (453) (65)                            461
                       Driveway                   317                                   53 (34)            (135)        Green
                                                  SITE                                  408 (101)                      Level to
                      4                  42                                                                            Durham
                     (22)               (36)
                                                                                                            148         Road
                             4                                                       495 122               (908)
                                                                       456 432
             586            (22)                                                    (517) (455)
                                                                      (180) (632)
 Green      (217)                           42 (36)
                                            582 (195)
Level to
Durham
 Road         251                                                  12 (11)           156 424
             (519)                                               193 (369)           (48) (603)
                                                                  46 (139)


                                                                       478               580
                                                                      (771)             (651)


                                                                           O'Kelly
                                                                         Chapel Road
                                                                                                        SCENARIO #1


           LEGEND                                                                                 2014 TRAFFIC WITH SITE
                                               Town of Cary TAR 317
      XXX = AM Peak Hour                    Stonewater PUD Amendment                               DATE: September 2009

      (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                   Commercial Development
                                                                                                     FIGURE 10-1
            NOT                                                     O'Kelly Chapel Road
  N         TO                                                            (Future)
           SCALE
                                                                        234              162
                                                                       (505)            (241)
                                                                60 61 113
                                    2340                                                  46 (116)                  2633
                                                                (6) (166) (333)
                                    (678)                                                 2150 (580)               (1308)
                                                                                          434 (610)
                55
                                                                     1 (2)
                                    589                          79 (120)                                           1050
                                   (2434)                                            129 57 483                    (2879)
                                                               454 (1974)
                                                                                     (90) (31) (572)
                                                                 55 (338)

                                                                      11    508
                                                         11          (42) (1092)
                                                        (42)
                                      Site
                                   Driveway
                                                                    21 (74)
                                                         21                             555
                                                        (74)                           (581)

                       Proposed
                                                                  478 26 8
                          Site                    TAR            (688) (441) (35)                           453
                       Driveway                   317                                   53 (34)            (134)        Green
                                                  SITE                                  400 (100)                      Level to
                      3                  13                                                                            Durham
                     (12)               (40)
                                                                                                            148         Road
                             3                                                       495 122               (896)
                                                                       448 430
             585            (12)                                                    (512) (455)
                                                                      (181) (613)
 Green      (205)                           13 (40)
                                            582 (193)
Level to
Durham
 Road         243                                                   4 (12)           143 424
             (518)                                               193 (367)           (50) (600)
                                                                  46 (139)


                                                                       476               567
                                                                      (752)             (650)


                                                                           O'Kelly
                                                                         Chapel Road
                                                                                                         SCENARIO #2


           LEGEND                                                                                 2014 TRAFFIC WITH SITE
                                               Town of Cary TAR 317
      XXX = AM Peak Hour                    Stonewater PUD Amendment                               DATE: September 2009

      (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                   Commercial Development
                                                                                                     FIGURE 10-2
            NOT
  N         TO
           SCALE            Site
                         Driveway

                                     TAR
            Proposed                                516             557
                                     317
                                                   (1225)          (616)
               Site                  SITE
            Driveway
                                        135 345 26 10                53 (34)
                          612          (130) (577) (453) (65)        321 (46)           461
                         (224)                                       87 (55)           (135)        Green
 Green
Level to                                                                                           Level to
Durham                                                                                             Durham
 Road                         250
                                               12 (11)                                              Road
                                             119 (126)                                   148
                             (519)                              156 375 49              (908)
                                              73 (243)          (48) (391) (212)
                                              46 (139)


                                                     478            580
                                                    (771)          (651)
                                                                                            SCENARIO #1
                                                 O'Kelly Chapel Road


                                 Site
                              Driveway

            Proposed                 TAR
                                                    512             556
               Site                  317
                                                   (1163)          (582)
            Driveway                 SITE

                                        135 343 26 8                 53 (34)
                            595        (130) (556) (441) (36)        313 (45)           453
                           (237)                                     87 (55)           (134)        Green
 Green
Level to                                                                                           Level to
Durham                                                                                             Durham
 Road                         243
                                                4 (12)                                              Road
                                             120 (124)                                   148
                             (518)                              143 375 49              (896)
                                              73 (243)          (50) (388) (212)
                                              46 (139)


                                                     476            567
                                                    (750)          (650)

                                                                                               SCENARIO #2
                                                  O'Kelly Chapel Road

           LEGEND                                                               REDISTRIBUTED TRAFFIC WITH SITE
                                          Town of Cary TAR 317
      XXX = AM Peak Hour               Stonewater PUD Amendment                       DATE: September 2009

      (XXX) = PM Peak Hour              Commercial Development
                                                                                         FIGURE 11
            NOT
  N          TO                                    O'Kelly Chapel Road
           SCALE

                                     RESTRIPE
                                     FOR TWO
                                     THROUGH                              350'
                                      LANES
                                            375'          350'                    STRIPE FOR
                                                                                  DUAL LEFT-
                                                                          300'      TURNS

           55

                                                   300'
                                                                  200' 1200'
                    CONSTRUCT EASTBOUND
                    THROUGH TRAVEL LANE &          375'
                    RESTRIPE CURRENT TWO-                                  EXTEND EASTBOUND
                     WAY SECTION FOR TWO                                  RIGHT-TURN LANE FOR
                      WESTBOUND LANES                                    1,200 FEET OF STORAGE
                                                    150'


                            Site
                         Driveway


                     Proposed
                        Site
                     Driveway
                                    TAR
                                    317                                         REALIGN GREEN LEVEL
                                                                                TO DURHAM RD SOUTH
                                    SITE
                                                                                OF O'KELLY CHAPEL RD
                                                                                  & CONSTRUCT 2 NB
                                                                                    TRAVEL LANES
                                              500'         300'

 Green                                                                                             Green
                                                                         225'
Level to                                                                                          Level to
Durham                                                                                            Durham
 Road                                              225'                                            Road

                                              DROP                250'    DROP
                                                                            COMPLETE FOUR-
                                                                             LANE DIVIDED
                                                                            CROSS-SECTION
                                                                           WEST OF GLD ROAD



                                                   O'Kelly Chapel Road

           LEGEND                                                        RECOMMENDED IMPROVEMENTS
      = TOWN OF CARY APFO
                                   Town of Cary TAR 317
        REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS   Stonewater PUD Amendment                         DATE: September 2009
      = TOWN OF CARY CTP         Commercial Development
      REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS                                                         FIGURE 12
Appendix B ­ Traffic Count Data
                                                    HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                               343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Default Comments                                                      Raleigh, NC 27609             File Name          : NC 55 - OKelly Chapel AM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                              Site Code          : 00000000
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                            Start Date         : 9/2/2009
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                         Page No            :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                OKELLY CHAPEL RD                    OKELLY CHAPEL RD                    NC 55                                NC 55
                       Eastbound                           Westbound                       Northbound                         Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 06:30 AM        8     0   28     0        36        0     0    0     0        0    27 204      0     0      231         0    91    8     0        99          366
 06:45 AM        8     0   39     0        47        0     0    0     0        0    40 271      0     0      311         0    87    8     0        95          453
     Total      16     0   67     0        83        0     0    0     0        0    67 475      0     0      542         0 178     16     0       194          819

 07:00 AM       13    0    39    0        52         0     0       0    0     0    46 329       0     0     375          0    77      8    0       85         512
 07:15 AM       10    0    33    0        43         0     0       0    0     0    47 391       0     0     438          0    90      7    0       97         578
 07:30 AM        5    0    41    0        46         0     0       0    0     0    59 464       0     0     523          0   107      6    0      113         682
 07:45 AM        8    0    42    0        50         0     0       0    0     0    49 505       0     0     554          0    92      6    0       98         702
     Total      36    0   155    0       191         0     0       0    0     0   201 1689      0     0    1890          0   366     27    0      393        2474

 08:00 AM        8    0    47    0        55         0     0       0    0     0    63 477       0     0     540          0    74      5    0       79         674
 08:15 AM        7    0    58    0        65         0     0       0    0     0    46 470       0     0     516          1   101      2    0      104         685
 08:30 AM        4    0    42    1        47         0     0       0    0     0    38 488       0     0     526          1    88      4    0       93         666
 08:45 AM        9    0    38    0        47         0     0       0    0     0    56 507       0     0     563          0    73      6    0       79         689
     Total      28    0   185    1       214         0     0       0    0     0   203 1942      0     0    2145          2   336     17    0      355        2714

 09:00 AM        13   0   30      0       43         0     0       0    0     0     45   358    0     0     403          0    58       4   0      62          508
 09:15 AM        10   0   29      0       39         0     0       0    0     0     40   251    0     0     291          0    63       2   0      65          395
 Grand Total    103   0 466       1      570         0     0       0    0     0    556   4715   0     0    5271          2   1001     66   0    1069         6910
 Apprch %      18.1   0 81.8    0.2                  0     0       0    0         10.5   89.5   0     0                0.2   93.6    6.2   0
  Total %       1.5   0  6.7      0      8.2         0     0       0    0     0      8   68.2   0     0    76.3          0   14.5      1   0     15.5
 Unshifted      100   0 419       1      520         0     0       0    0     0    485   4634   0     0    5119          2    924     61   0      987        6626
 % Unshifted   97.1   0 89.9    100     91.2         0     0       0    0     0   87.2   98.3   0     0    97.1        100   92.3   92.4   0     92.3        95.9
   Bank 1         3   0   47      0       50         0     0       0    0     0     71     81   0     0     152          0     77      5   0       82         284
 % Bank 1       2.9   0 10.1      0      8.8         0     0       0    0     0   12.8    1.7   0     0     2.9          0    7.7    7.6   0      7.7         4.1
                                                      HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                 343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Default Comments                                                        Raleigh, NC 27609         File Name : NC 55 - OKelly Chapel PM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                                  Site Code : 00000000
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                                Start Date : 9/2/2009
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                             Page No : 1


                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                OKELLY CAPEL RD                        OKELLY CAPEL RD                    NC 55                                   NC 55
                      Eastbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                            Southbound
Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 03:30 PM       8     0   41     0           49        0     0    0     0        0    30   94     0     0        124         0    202       8      0       210          383
 03:45 PM       6     0   39     0           45        0     0    0     0        0    31 109      0     0        140         1    200       8      0       209          394
     Total     14     0   80     0           94        0     0    0     0        0    61 203      0     0        264         1    402      16      0       419          777

 04:00 PM       2    0    51       0        53         0     0      0    0      0    31     68     0      0       99         2 276         14      0      292          444
 04:15 PM       6    0    41       0        47         0     0      0    0      0    29     94     0      0      123         0 307         11      0      318          488
 04:30 PM       5    0    46       0        51         0     0      0    0      0    28     95     0      0      123         0 353         15      0      368          542
 04:45 PM       3    0    57       0        60         0     0      0    0      0    45    116     0      0      161         0 451         14      0      465          686
     Total     16    0   195       0       211         0     0      0    0      0   133    373     0      0      506         2 1387        54      0     1443         2160

 05:00 PM       5    0    40       1        46         0     0      0    0      0    46    119     0      0      165         1 493        37       0      531          742
 05:15 PM       1    0    40       0        41         0     0      0    0      0    56    108     6      0      170         0 514        78       0      592          803
 05:30 PM       7    0    48       0        55         0     0      0    0      0    76    127     0      0      203         1 403        62       0      466          724
 05:45 PM       1    0    43       0        44         0     0      0    0      0    94    125     0      0      219         1 360        39       0      400          663
     Total     14    0   171       1       186         0     0      0    0      0   272    479     6      0      757         3 1770      216       0     1989         2932

 06:00 PM       1    0     28      0         29        0     0      0    0      0    63    105     0      0      168         1    360      30      0      391          588
 06:15 PM       5    0     37      1         43        0     0      0    0      0    44    110     0      0      154         0    294      29      0      323          520
Grand Total    50    0   511       2       563         0     0      0    0      0   573    1270     6     0     1849          7   4213    345      0     4565         6977
 Apprch %     8.9    0   90.8     0.4                  0     0      0    0            31   68.7   0.3     0                 0.2   92.3     7.6     0
   Total %    0.7    0     7.3      0       8.1        0     0      0    0      0    8.2   18.2   0.1     0     26.5        0.1   60.4     4.9     0     65.4
 Unshifted     44    0    456       2      502         0     0      0    0      0   543    1230     6     0     1779          6   4177    341      0     4524         6805
% Unshifted    88    0   89.2    100      89.2         0     0      0    0      0   94.8   96.9   100     0     96.2       85.7   99.1   98.8      0     99.1         97.5
   Bank 1       6    0     55       0       61         0     0      0    0      0     30     40     0     0       70          1     36       4     0       41          172
 % Bank 1      12    0   10.8       0     10.8         0     0      0    0      0    5.2    3.1     0     0      3.8       14.3    0.9    1.2      0      0.9          2.5
                                                            HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                         343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Default Comments                                                                Raleigh, NC 27609 File Name : OKelly Chapel - Green Level AM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                                Site Code : 00000003
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                              Start Date : 9/1/2009
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                           Page No : 1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                          O'Kelly                                      O'Kelly                       Green Level                              Green Level
                         Eastbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                               Southbound
Start Time    Left    Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 06:30 AM       4      14        7      0         25        0      24     4     0      28      7     4     4     0           15        1      7       2      0         10          78
 06:45 AM       6      16        4      0         26       11      36     5     0      52      8   15     13     0           36        0      2       5      0          7         121
     Total     10      30       11      0         51       11      60     9     0      80     15   19     17     0           51        1      9       7      0         17         199

 07:00 AM       9      21        2      0        32         0      62       6    0     68    10     28     23      0        61         4      2       5      1         12         173
 07:15 AM      15      28        2      0        45         6      50       3    0     59    12     42     15      1        70         3      3       3      0          9         183
 07:30 AM      27      22        2      0        51         8      46       3    0     57    15     47     12      0        74         1      1       1      0          3         185
 07:45 AM      17      39        5      0        61         7      50       2    0     59    18     65     15      0        98         1      1       3      0          5         223
     Total     68     110       11      0       189        21     208      14    0    243    55    182     65      1       303         9      7      12      1         29         764

 08:00 AM      13      27        5      0         45        5      59       2    0     66    16     56      9      0        81         3      1       1      0         5          197
 08:15 AM       3       8        6      0         17       21      62      12    0     95    19     39      9      0        67         3     37       6      2        48          227
 08:30 AM       5       1        1      0          7        9      56       6    0     71    15     35     10      0        60         5     42       6      0        53          191
 08:45 AM       1       1        3      0          5       12      63      17    0     92    16     31      8      0        55         5     37       3      0        45          197
     Total     22      37       15      0         74       47     240      37    0    324    66    161     36      0       263        16    117      16      2       151          812

 09:00 AM        5       0       1      0           6      15      38      15    0     68     9     30       6     0         45        5     40       2      0         47         166
 09:15 AM        1       1       1      0           3       7      28       8    0     43     6     20       4     0         30        3     40       1      0         44         120
Grand Total    106     178      39      0       323        101     574      83   0    758   151     412    128      1      692         34    213     38       3      288         2061
  Apprch %    32.8    55.1    12.1      0                 13.3    75.7    10.9   0          21.8   59.5   18.5    0.1                11.8     74   13.2       1
    Total %     5.1     8.6    1.9      0      15.7         4.9   27.9       4   0   36.8    7.3     20     6.2     0     33.6        1.6   10.3    1.8     0.1       14
  Unshifted    106     178      39      0       323        101     574      83   0    758   151     412    128      1      692         34    213     38       3      288         2061
% Unshifted
   Bank 1        0       0       0      0           0        0      0       0    0      0     0      0       0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0            0
 % Bank 1        0       0       0      0           0        0      0       0    0      0     0      0       0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0            0
                                                         HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                      343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Default Comments                                                             Raleigh, NC 27609 File Name : OKelly Chapel - Green Level PM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                             Site Code : 00000032
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                           Start Date : 9/1/2009
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                        Page No : 1


                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                         O'Kelly                                    O'Kelly                       Green Level                           Green Level
                        Eastbound                                 Westbound                       Northbound                            Southbound
Start Time    Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 03:30 PM       2     38       6      0         46        9     17     2     0      28      5     7     8     0        20       13      8       0      0         21         115
 03:45 PM       4     27       4      0         35        2     20     4     0      26      7     1     8     0        16        2      7       4      0         13          90
     Total      6     65      10      0         81       11     37     6     0      54     12     8    16     0        36       15     15       4      0         34         205

 04:00 PM       3     28       7      0        38         5     28       2    0     35     5      3     10    0        18        4     12       6      0        22          113
 04:15 PM       4     36      11      0        51        16     23       1    0     40    10      3      4    0        17        4     19       6      0        29          137
 04:30 PM       4     43      13      0        60        23     33       3    0     59     5      4      6    0        15        5     18      10      0        33          167
 04:45 PM       1     45       8      0        54        29     40       3    0     72     3      8      5    0        16        2     29       6      0        37          179
     Total     12    152      39      0       203        73    124       9    0    206    23     18     25    0        66       15     78      28      0       121          596

 05:00 PM       0     38     15       0        53        38     37       1    0     76    11     10      2    0        23        1     51      13      1        66         218
 05:15 PM       6     41     28       0        75        80     40       6    0    126     4      6      7    0        17        2     81      32      0       115         333
 05:30 PM       5     22     42       0        69       103     50       4    0    157    12     13      9    0        34        0     62      18      0        80         340
 05:45 PM       7     26     36       0        69       105     57       5    0    167     3      7      8    0        18        3     49      23      0        75         329
     Total     18    127    121       0       266       326    184      16    0    526    30     36     26    0        92        6    243      86      1       336        1220

 06:00 PM       6     35      17      0         58       42     36       3    0     81     2     13      3    0        18        3     29      17      0         49         206
 06:15 PM       3     38      21      0         62       20     29       1    0     50     8      6      6    0        20        3     17       9      0         29         161
Grand Total    45     417   208       0       670        472    410      35   0    917     75     81     76   0      232       42     382     144       1      569         2388
  Apprch %    6.7    62.2    31       0                 51.5   44.7     3.8   0          32.3   34.9   32.8   0                7.4    67.1   25.3     0.2
    Total %   1.9    17.5   8.7       0      28.1       19.8   17.2     1.5   0   38.4    3.1    3.4    3.2   0      9.7       1.8      16      6       0     23.8
  Unshifted    45     417   208       0       670        472    410      35   0    917     75     81     76   0      232       42      382    144       1      569         2388
% Unshifted
   Bank 1       0      0       0      0           0       0      0       0    0      0     0      0      0    0          0       0      0       0      0           0            0
 % Bank 1       0      0       0      0           0       0      0       0    0      0     0      0      0    0          0       0      0       0      0           0            0
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                               343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Default Comments                                                      Raleigh, NC 27609            File Name             : OKelly Chapel - Side AM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                             Site Code             : 00000000
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                           Start Date            : 9/1/2009
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                        Page No               :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
               OKELLY CHAPEL RD                    OKELLY CHAPEL RD                    SIDE RD                               SIDE RD
                      Eastbound                           Westbound                       Northbound                           Southbound
Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 06:30 AM       0   26     0     0        26        0   46     0     0      46      0     0    0     0          0       0      0       1      0           1         73
 06:45 AM       0   39     0     0        39        0   56     0     0      56      0     0    0     0          0       0      0       1      0           1         96
     Total      0   65     0     0        65        0 102      0     0    102       0     0    0     0          0       0      0       2      0           2        169

 07:00 AM      0     48    0   0         48         0    61        0    0    61    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       5      0           5        114
 07:15 AM      0     39    0   0         39         0    53        0    0    53    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       4      0           4         96
 07:30 AM      0     49    0   0         49         0    59        0    0    59    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0        108
 07:45 AM      0     39    0   0         39         0    67        0    0    67    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0        106
     Total     0    175    0   0        175         0   240        0    0   240    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       9      0           9        424

 08:00 AM      0     52    0   0         52         0    52        0    0    52    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       4      0           4        108
 08:15 AM      0     50    0   0         50         0    57        0    0    57    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       2      0           2        109
 08:30 AM      0     53    0   0         53         0    43        0    0    43    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0         96
 08:45 AM      1     39    0   0         40         0    53        0    0    53    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       3      0           3         96
     Total     1    194    0   0        195         0   205        0    0   205    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       9      0           9        409

 09:00 AM      0     41    0   0          41        0    39        0    0    39    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0          80
 09:15 AM      0     28    0   0          28        0    40        0    0    40    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0          68
Grand Total     1    503   0   0        504         0    626       0    0   626    0     0     0    0           0       0      0     20       0         20        1150
  Apprch %    0.2   99.8   0   0                    0    100       0    0          0     0     0    0                   0      0    100       0
    Total %   0.1   43.7   0   0       43.8         0   54.4       0    0   54.4   0     0     0    0           0       0      0    1.7       0        1.7
  Unshifted     1    470   0   0        471         0    554       0    0    554   0     0     0    0           0       0      0     20       0         20        1045
% Unshifted
   Bank 1      0     33    0   0          33        0     72       0    0     72   0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0        105
 % Bank 1      0    6.6    0   0         6.5        0   11.5       0    0   11.5   0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0        9.1
                                                   HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                               343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
Default Comments                                                      Raleigh, NC 27609            File Name             : OKelly Chapel - Side PM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                             Site Code             : 00000000
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                           Start Date            : 9/1/2009
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                        Page No               :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
               OKELLY CHAPEL RD                    OKELLY CHAPEL RD                    SIDE RD                               SIDE RD
                      Eastbound                           Westbound                       Northbound                           Southbound
Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 03:30 PM       0   59     0     0        59        0   29     0     0      29      0     0    0     0          0       0      0       0      0           0         88
 03:45 PM       0   37     0     0        37        0   27     0     0      27      0     0    0     0          0       0      0       0      0           0         64
     Total      0   96     0     0        96        0   56     0     0      56      0     0    0     0          0       0      0       0      0           0        152

 04:00 PM      0     43    0   0         43         0    35        1    0    36    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0         79
 04:15 PM      0     43    0   0         43         0    40        2    0    42    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0         85
 04:30 PM      0     55    0   0         55         0    57        0    0    57    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       2      0           2        114
 04:45 PM      0     50    0   0         50         0    70        0    0    70    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       3      0           3        123
     Total     0    191    0   0        191         0   202        3    0   205    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       5      0           5        401

 05:00 PM      0     41    0   0         41         0    75        1    0    76    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0        117
 05:15 PM      0     50    0   0         50         0   126        1    0   127    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       2      0           2        179
 05:30 PM      0     34    0   0         34         0   153        1    0   154    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0        188
 05:45 PM      0     41    0   0         41         0   165        2    0   167    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       2      0           2        210
     Total     0    166    0   0        166         0   519        5    0   524    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       4      0           4        694

 06:00 PM      0     41    0   0          41        0    80        2    0    82    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       2      0           2        125
 06:15 PM      1     42    0   0          43        0    49        0    0    49    0     0    0     0           0       0      0       3      0           3         95
Grand Total     1    536   0   0        537         0    906      10    0   916    0     0     0    0           0       0      0     14       0         14        1467
  Apprch %    0.2   99.8   0   0                    0   98.9     1.1    0          0     0     0    0                   0      0    100       0
    Total %   0.1   36.5   0   0       36.6         0   61.8     0.7    0   62.4   0     0     0    0           0       0      0      1       0          1
  Unshifted     1    480   0   0        481         0    881      10    0    891   0     0     0    0           0       0      0     14       0         14        1386
% Unshifted
   Bank 1      0      56   0   0         56         0    25        0    0     25   0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0         81
 % Bank 1      0    10.4   0   0       10.4         0   2.8        0    0    2.7   0     0    0     0           0       0      0       0      0           0         5.5
