TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
REPORT 325

Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter
Property



Proposed Residential
Development


GREEN LEVEL CHURCH ROAD
                   ROAD
NEAR MCCRIMMON PARKWAY


The Town of Cary, North Carolina




PREPARED FOR:

Town of Cary
Engineering Department

PREPARED BY:

HNTB North Carolina, PC
343 East Six Forks Road
Suite 200
Raleigh, NC 27609
NCBELS License #: C-1554



October 2011
                                             Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development


                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A new residential development being developed by Pulte Homes is being proposed for
construction at the northwest quadrant of the intersection of Green Level Church Road
and McCrimmon Parkway in Cary, NC. Figure 1 shows the general site location of the
planned development, which is located along the western frontage of Green Level
Church Road, just north of McCrimmon Parkway. The proposed project is to have
vehicular access via a new street connection to Green Level Church Road, and two
neighborhood street connections to Bolton Grant Drive and Enfield Hill Drive in the
Weycroft residential development. The proposed development is planned to be fully
complete by 2013. This report analyzes the full build-out scenario for the year 2013, the
No-Build scenario for 2013, as well as 2011 existing year traffic conditions.

The proposed site is located on a single parcel, which is currently undeveloped. Figure
2 shows the preliminary project site plan, and the location of the proposed site access
along Green Level Church Road, as well as two future roadway connections to adjacent
neighborhood. This report analyzes and presents the traffic impacts that the proposed
Pulte Homes site will have on the following existing and proposed intersections in west
Cary:

   ·   McCrimmon Parkway and Green Level Church Road
   ·   McCrimmon Parkway and Weycroft Ridge Drive
   ·   McCrimmon Parkway and Yates Store Road
   ·   Green Level Church Road and Ridgefield Drive/ Proposed Full Access Driveway
   ·   Green Level Church Road and Weycroft Avenue
   ·   Green Level Church Road and Horton's Creek Road

The impacts of the proposed site at these intersections will be evaluated during the AM
and PM peak hours of an average weekday. There are several developments in the
study area already under construction or in the process of being built-out that were
studied for the potential to generate additional background traffic by the 2013 design
year. Study area field observations indicate that three nearby developments would
likely add specific additional background traffic between 2011 and 2013. Additional
potential future development in the West Cary area was accounted for in an area-wide
future ambient traffic growth factor estimated to be 7.5 percent per year along Green
Level Church Road and 10 percent per year along McCrimmon Parkway and Yates
Store Road, based on recent traffic studies completed near the proposed project study
area and a comparison of 2011 traffic count data to historic traffic count data for other
past developments in the study area. These background traffic increases were applied
to 2013 no-build and build analysis scenarios.




                                         ES-1
                                               Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

II. EXISTING CONDITIONS
The proposed site is currently undeveloped. The study area consists of six existing
intersections in the vicinity of the proposed site parcel. None of the intersections are
currently signalized. Most of the study area is in a transitional development stage, with
a mixture of residential subdivisions of varying density and several large parcels of
undeveloped land along Green Level Church Road. Green Level Church Road is
designated as a major arterial serving residential and commercial development in the
study area between the Cary Park subdivision and the Stonewater PUD. It also
functions as a parallel option for commuter traffic seeking to avoid existing congestion
on N.C. 55 east of the study area. McCrimmon Parkway and Yates Store Road are
minor arterials that provide connectivity between the Amberly development to the west
of the proposed site and N.C. 55 to the east. All other remaining roadways are local
access streets.

There are three roadway improvement projects currently under construction to be
complete before the 2013 build out year that may affect travel conditions in the project
study area.

   ·   The Town of Cary is currently constructing a widening of Green Level Church
       Road south of McCrimmon Parkway for a four-lane divided facility.

   ·   The Evans Farm residential subdivision, north of the Pulte Homes site, is
       currently widening Green Level Church Road along the development's frontage.

   ·   Finally, the North Carolina Turnpike Authority is currently constructing the West
       Wake Expressway that will provide a six-lane high speed tolled freeway facility
       just east of the proposed site. Though its impacts are not specifically analyzed in
       this report (there will be no interchange in the specific project study area), it is
       anticipated that the facility will cause some commuter traffic to shift from N.C. 55
       to the new facility, and thus may affect travel patterns on Green Level Church
       Road.

III. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The site plan application for the Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property project proposes to
construct up to 75 new single family home sites. One new local street connection to
Green Level Church Road is proposed. Two additional future roadway connections to
existing local streets in the existing Weycroft neighborhood to the west of the Pulte
Homes site are also shown on the plan. The site plan shows no additional
improvements/changes to external roadways, except for a designation of 32 feet of
additional right-of-way for roadway improvements along Green Level Church Road.

Table ES-1, on the next page, shows the estimated trip generation data for the
development, based on methodologies found in the Institute of Transportation
Engineer's Trip Generation Manual, Volume 8, 2007. To be conservative, no reductions


                                          ES-2
                                                   Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                        Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

for internally captured trips, pedestrian and bicycle trips, or transit usage was made for
this study.

                                       Table ES-1
                       Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                       Proposed Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                 ITE Land Use Code 210 ­ (Single-Family Detached Homes)

   Independent       Time    Generation   % Traffic   % Traffic   TOTAL TRIPS     Total Trips
     Variable       Period     Rate*         IN         OUT        IN      OUT    Generated
                     Daily      10.64        50%        50%        399      399      798
     75 homes      AM Peak       0.83        25%        75%        16       47        63
                   PM Peak       1.08        63%        37%        51       30        81
 * - Generation Rate Per Home site Based on ITE Regression Equation Methodology



IV. TRAFFIC OPERATIONS ANALYSIS

Existing intersections were analyzed during the AM and PM peak hours of study area
traffic patterns, using data collected by HNTB. Of the six existing study area
intersections analyzed, one currently experiences deficient traffic operations. Capacity
analysis results indicate that westbound stop-controlled movement on McCrimmon
Parkway at its intersection with Green Level Church Road is experiencing a Level-of-
Service (LOS) E in the weekday PM peak hour.

The addition of ambient area-wide traffic growth and background development growth
(from the nearby build-out of the Horton's Creek, Evan's Farm, and Weycroft residential
developments) by the 2013 design year cause increases in intersection delays, but not
to the degree that any critical movement does not meet Town of Cary Adequate Public
Facilities Ordinance (APFO) thresholds of LOS D or better. Existing congestion and
safety issues at the Green Level Church Road and McCrimmon Parkway intersection
will be mitigated by the Green Level Church Road widening project, which includes the
installation of a traffic signal at this intersection.

 The addition of site-related traffic in the 2013 design year will marginally increase delay
at all study area intersections, but will not cause any additional intersection deficiencies.
A summary of the traffic operations for each intersection, related to vehicular delays
(intersection average as a whole if signalized, critical movement if stop-controlled) and
the corresponding LOS is shown in Table ES-2 on the next page.




                                             ES-3
                                                               Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                            Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

                              Table ES-2 LOS and Delay Summary
                            TAR 325 ­ Pulte Homes Carpenter Property

                                              2011 Existing       2013 No-Site       2013 W/Site 2013 Mitigated
                                     Peak
Intersections
                                     Hour      LOS      Delay     LOS     Delay     LOS     Delay     LOS      Delay
McCrimmon Parkway and                 AM         C       20.9      A*      8.6*       A*     8.7*      N/A       N/A
Green Level Church Road               PM         E       40.5      B*      10.2*      B*     10.5*     N/A       N/A

McCrimmon Parkway and                 AM         A       9.7       A        9.8       A       9.8      N/A       N/A
Weycroft Ridge Drive                  PM         A       9.5       B        10.1      B      10.2      N/A       N/A

McCrimmon Parkway and                 AM         B       11.7      B        12.6      B      12.6      N/A       N/A
Yates Store Road                      PM         B       11.1      B        11.8      B      11.8      N/A       N/A

Green Level Church Road and           AM         B       11.9      B        13.1      B      14.0       B       14.0
Ridgefield Drive / Proposed
Full Access Driveway                  PM         A       9.0       A        9.0       C      18.4       C       18.2

Green Level Church Road and           AM         B       11.7      B        13.7      B      13.9      N/A       N/A
Weycroft Avenue                       PM         B       13.5      C        17.9      C      18.8      N/A       N/A

Green Level Church Road and           AM         B       11.7      B        14.3      B      14.4      N/A       N/A
Horton's Creek Road                   PM         C       15.4      C        20.2      C      20.4      N/A       N/A

* - LOS/Delay Data is for overall signalized intersection operations ­ all other data is for worst-case stop-controlled
movement
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made



V. MITIGATION RELATED TO THE PROJECT

In conclusion, only one of the six existing intersections experiences deficient operations
in the 2011 existing scenario. In the 2013 design year no-build scenario, none of the
study area intersection operations are projected to drop below Town of Cary LOS D
thresholds for adequate traffic operations in the Base Transportation Zone. The existing
deficiency at the intersection of Green Level Church Road and McCrimmon Parkway
will be mitigated by the Town of Cary Green Level Church Widening project that
provides a traffic signal at this intersection. The addition of site generated traffic from
the proposed Pulte Homes development will not cause any additional intersections to
drop to a deficient LOS in either peak hour in the 2013 design year build scenario.

To comply with the vision of the Town of Cary 2008 Comprehensive Transportation
Plan, (CTP) additional right-of-way designation would be required along the Pulte
Homes site frontage with Green Level Church Road to provide space for an ultimate six-
lane roadway with divided median (124 foot total right-of-way width). Similar to nearby
widening already complete, or under construction, along Green Level Church Road for
private development projects, the roadway cross-section of Green Level Church Road
along the Pulte Homes site frontage should be widened to provide additional usable
pavement for northbound and southbound auxiliary turn lanes into the Pulte Homes site.
This would also allow for the development of a southbound left-turn lane into the
                                                        ES-4
                                             Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

existing Ridgefield Drive residential area. Providing the auxiliary turn lanes provides
marginal benefits in terms of capacity and delay reduction for stop-controlled
movements at the intersection, but will provide a safety benefit of removing turning
vehicles from the through traffic stream on Green Level Church Road. Figure 11 shows
these recommended improvements. Additional details for these recommended
improvements are listed below.

·   The recommended southbound right-turn lane will ultimately become a through
    travel lane when Green Level Church Road is widened for a consistent six-lane
    divided cross-section to meet CTP requirements. At that time, a separate auxiliary
    right-turn lane will not be needed.

·   The recommended northbound left-turn lane is considered a temporary
    improvement, as the intersection of Green Level Church Road and Ridgefield
    Drive/Site Access Driveway may be ultimately median divided and limited to right-
    turns in and out of the minor street access approaches. Weycroft Avenue, which is
    shown as a future collector street on CTP diagrams (Figure 7.14 in the CTP) may
    become a nearby full access intersection. Since the Pulte Homes site plan shows
    local neighborhood access to streets in the Weycroft Subdivision, these internal
    connections would allow usage of Weycroft Avenue for full access to Green Level
    Church Road. No specific analysis of site traffic redistributions due to these
    potential changes was made for this study.




                                         ES-5
                                                                    Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                              Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development


                                                  Table of Contents

APPENDIX LIST/LIST OF FIGURES ............................................................................... ii

LIST OF TABLES ............................................................................................................. ii

I. Existing Conditions................................................................................................... 1

         A. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 1

         B. Project Description ........................................................................................... 1

         C. Geometrics and Traffic Control ........................................................................ 2

         D. Existing Volumes and Other Potential Impacts ................................................ 4

II. Probable Impacts of the Project.............................................................................. 5

III. Traffic Impacts .......................................................................................................... 6

         A. Trip Generation ................................................................................................ 6

         B. Background Development Traffic ..................................................................... 7

         C. Trip Distribution and Assignment ..................................................................... 9

IV. Impact Analysis........................................................................................................ 9

         A. Capacity Analysis Methodology ....................................................................... 9

         B. Capacity Analysis Results For Study Area Intersections ................................ 15

V. Summary and Recommendations ........................................................................ 16




                                                                i
                                                               Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                           Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

APPENDICES

A.   Figures
B.   Traffic Count Data
C.   Roadway Project Design Files
D.   Background Site Traffic Details
E.   Synchro Signalized Analysis Output
F.   Highway Capacity Software Analysis Output

List of Figures

Figure
  1) Site Location Map
  2) Pulte Homes Preliminary Site Plan
  3) 2011 Existing Laneage
  4) 2011 Existing Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
  5) 2013 Ambient Traffic Growth Traffic Volumes
  6) 2013 Total Background Traffic Volumes
  7) 2013 Traffic Volumes Without Site
  8) 2013 Site Traffic Distribution Percentages
  9) 2013 Site Traffic Assignment
  10) 2013 Traffic Volumes With Site
  11) Background and Recommended Improvements

List of Tables

Table                                                                                                 Page
  1)    Existing Study Area Roadways ..................................................................2
  2)    Traffic Count Information............................................................................4
  3)    Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary .............................................6
  4)    Background Development Generator Status ..............................................7
  5)    Evans Farm Residential Background Trip Generation Summary ...............8
  6)    Level of Service (LOS) Characteristics ....................................................10
  7A)   Level of Service for Study Area Intersections ..........................................13
  7B)   Delay Results for Study Area Intersections .............................................14




                                                          ii
                                                Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development


I. EXISTING CONDITIONS

A. Introduction

A new residential development being developed by Pulte Homes is being proposed for
construction at the northwest quadrant of the intersection of Green Level Church Road
and McCrimmon Parkway in Cary, NC. Figure 1 shows the general site location of the
planned development, which is located along the western frontage of Green Level
Church Road, just north of McCrimmon Parkway. The proposed project is to have
vehicular access via a new street connection to Green Level Church Road, and two
neighborhood street connections to Bolton Grant Drive and Enfield Hill Drive in the
Weycroft residential development. The proposed development is planned to be fully
complete by 2013. This report analyzes the full build-out scenario for the year 2013, the
No-Build scenario for 2013, as well as 2011 existing year traffic conditions.

The proposed site is located on a single parcel, which is currently undeveloped. Figure
2 shows the preliminary project site plan, and the location of the proposed site access
along Green Level Church Road, as well as two future roadway connections to adjacent
neighborhood.

B. Project Description

This report analyzes and presents the traffic impacts that the proposed Pulte Homes
site will have on the following existing and proposed intersections in west Cary:

   ·   McCrimmon Parkway and Green Level Church Road
   ·   McCrimmon Parkway and Weycroft Ridge Drive
   ·   McCrimmon Parkway and Yates Store Road
   ·   Green Level Church Road and Ridgefield Drive/ Proposed Full Access Driveway
   ·   Green Level Church Road and Weycroft Avenue
   ·   Green Level Church Road and Horton's Creek Road

The impacts of the proposed site at these intersections will be evaluated during the AM
and PM peak hours of an average weekday. The following analysis is based on
background traffic for the existing year, 2011, the design year of 2013, and the
estimated site-generated traffic produced by the Pulte Homes development, which is to
include a maximum of 75 single-family home sites.

There are several Town of Cary-approved developments in the study area that were
investigated for potential additional background traffic generation. These developments
are either currently under construction or planned to be partially or fully complete by the
2013 design year. Additional background traffic from these developments was studied
for inclusion, as appropriate, for this analysis in the 2013 No-Build and Build scenarios.




                                            1
                                                           Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                          Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

C. Geometrics and Traffic Control

Existing Roadways

The TAR 325 project study area features three major arterial roadways serving areas in
the western part of the Town of Cary, as well as a number of local access streets.
Table 1, below, summarizes pertinent information on the study area roadway facilities.

                            Table 1 ­ Existing Study Area Roadways




                                                                                                Speed Limit
                                                                                    2009 AADT




                                                                                                                         On-Street
                                                                                                              Sidewalk


                                                                                                                          Parking
                                                         Study Area
                               Functional
Road Name                                          Existing Cross-Section
                                 Class*
                                                   (Future Cross-Section*)

                               Major           2 Lane Undivided With Turn Lanes
Green Level Church Road                                                            7,800        45            S            N
                               Arterial        (6 Lane Divided With Turn Lanes*)
McCrimmon Parkway              Major
                                               4 Lane Divided With Turn Lanes      N/A          45            Y            N
(E of Green Level Church)      Arterial
McCrimmon Parkway
                               Collector       2 Lane Divided With Turn Lanes      N/A          35            Y            N
(W of Green Level Church)
                               Major
Yates Store Road                               4 Lane Divided With Turn Lanes      N/A          45            Y            N
                               Arterial
Del Webb Avenue                                2 Lane Undivided                                               Y            N
Horton's Creek Road            Collector       2 Lane Undivided                    N/A          35            Y            N
Weycroft Avenue                                2 Lane Divided                                                 Y            N
Weycroft Ridge Drive                           2 Lane Undivided                                               Y            Y
                               Local                                               N/A          25
Ridgefield Drive                               2 Lane Undivided                                               N            Y
* - As defined in the Town of Cary 2008 Comprehensive Transportation Plan
S ­ Some Sidewalk Present

Intersections

Currently, there are six intersections in the study area. All intersections are currently
two-way stop controlled, with stop signs at the minor street approaches. Some
intersection approaches have exclusive turn bays for higher-volume turning movements.
Figure 3 shows the existing lane configurations and traffic control for these
intersections and adjacent roadway segments.

The intersection of McCrimmon Parkway and Green Level Church Road is currently a
two-way stop-controlled intersection, with a flashing yellow beacon alerting motorists of
the intersection. The McCrimmon Parkway approaches feature the stop-control for
eastbound and westbound movements. The northbound and southbound approaches
include a single left-turn/through/right-turn travel lane. The eastbound approach has a
left-turn lane, a through travel lane, and a shared through/right-turn lane that develops
150 feet upstream of the stop bar. The westbound approach has a left-turn lane, a
through travel lane, and a right-turn "drop" lane. No crosswalks are present at the
intersection.


                                                       2
                                               Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development


The intersection of Horton's Creek Road and Green Level Church Road is currently a
two-way stop-controlled intersection. The eastbound and westbound Horton's Creek
Road approaches feature the stop-control. The westbound approach from the Evans
Farm subdivision is currently open to construction traffic. The northbound approach on
Green Level Church Road includes a left-turn lane and a through travel lane. The
southbound approach features a through travel lane and a right-turn lane. The east and
westbound approaches have single shared left-turn/through/right-turn lanes. The
intersection is currently under construction, as pavement widening is occurring along
the Evans Farm development frontage. No crosswalks are present at the intersection.

The intersection of Weycroft Avenue and Green Level Church Road is currently a two-
way stop-controlled intersection. The eastbound Horton's Creek Road approach
features the stop-control. The northbound approach on Green Level Church Road
includes a left-turn lane and a through travel lane. The southbound approach features a
through travel lane and a right-turn lane. The eastbound approach has a single shared
left-turn/through/right-turn lane. No crosswalks are present at the intersection.

The intersection of Ridgefield Drive and Green Level Church Road is currently a two-
way stop-controlled intersection. The westbound Ridgefield Drive approach features
the stop-control and has a single left-turn/right-turn lane. The northbound approach on
Green Level Church Road includes a single through/right-turn travel lane. The
southbound approach features a single left-turn/through lane. No crosswalks are
present at the intersection.

The intersection of McCrimmon Parkway and Weycroft Ridge Drive is currently a two-
way stop-controlled intersection, with the Weycroft Ridge Drive approaches
experiencing the stopped condition. The east and westbound McCrimmon Parkway
approaches feature a left-turn lane and a through/right-turn lane. The northbound and
southbound approaches have single left-turn/through/right-turn lanes. Weycroft Ridge
Drive will potentially serve as an external access roadway for site-related traffic. No
crosswalks are present at the intersection.

The Intersection of McCrimmon Parkway/Del Webb Avenue and Yates Store Road is
currently a two-way stop-controlled intersection. Stop control is provided at the
McCrimmon Parkway and Del Webb Avenue approaches. The northbound and
southbound Yates Store Road approaches feature a left-turn lane, a through travel lane,
and a through/right-turn lane. The eastbound Del Webb Avenue approach features a
single shared left-turn/through/right-turn lane. The westbound McCrimmon Parkway
approach features a left-turn lane and a through/right-turn lane. Crosswalks are present
on all four approaches at this intersection.




                                           3
                                                  Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                      Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

D. Existing Traffic Volumes and Other Potential Impacts

Figure 4 shows the existing AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes for the study area
intersections. The counts used to determine these volumes were conducted by HNTB
North Carolina, P.C. for the following intersections during the respective times shown in
Table 2. Traffic count data files can be found in Appendix B of this report.

                           Table 2 - Traffic Count Information

                                                        Period      Count
 Traffic Count Location                                                         Peak Hour
                                                       Counted      Date
 McCrimmon Parkway and                                 AM Peak                7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
                                                                   2/22/11
 Green Level Church Road                               PM Peak                5:30 ­ 6:30 PM
                                                       AM Peak                7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
 McCrimmon Parkway and Weycroft Ridge Drive*                        3/8/11
                                                       PM Peak                5:30 ­ 6:30 PM
 McCrimmon Parkway / Del Webb Avenue and               AM Peak                8:00 ­ 9:00 AM
                                                                   2/24/11
 Yates Store Road                                      PM Peak                5:30 ­ 6:30 PM
 Green Level Church Road and                           AM Peak     2/23/11    7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
 Ridgefield Drive                                      PM Peak     2/24/11    5:15 ­ 6:15 PM
 Green Level Church Road and                           AM Peak                8:00 ­ 9:00 AM
                                                                    3/1/11
 Weycroft Avenue                                       PM Peak                5:15 ­ 6:15 PM
 Green Level Church Road and                            AM Peak                  7:45 ­ 8:45 AM
                                                                      3/1/11
 Horton's Creek Road / Evan's Farm Road                 PM Peak                  5:30 ­ 6:30 PM
* - Traffic Counts Only Conducted for single peak hours corresponding to the adjacent McCrimmon
Parkway/Green Level Church Road peak hours

Transit Impacts. Currently, Triangle Transit (TT) Route 311 operates to the east of the
project study area. The daily 311 route runs along N.C. 55, serving both Apex and
Research Triangle Park. Route 311 buses have 30 minute headways in each direction
during the AM and PM peak periods. Because of the large headways between buses
(two/three total buses by direction in the AM peak hour and two/three buses in the PM
peak hour) and the small percentage of ridership (in terms of total trips made in the
study area), it is anticipated that this route will have an insignificant effect on the travel
behavior of site trips in the study area.

The Town of Cary offers a demand-responsive bus service, C-Tran, which is available
to senior citizens and those with mobility limitations. It is a door-to-door service that is
available for use by reservation only. Though this service is provided throughout most
of the study area, it is anticipated that it will have an insignificant effect on the travel
behavior of site traffic in the study area. C-Tran also offers fixed route bus service on
six routes, but none of these routes operate within one mile of the study area.
Therefore, no adjustment has been made to projected site traffic volumes, based on C-
Tran services.




                                              4
                                                  Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                      Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

Planned Roadway Improvement Impacts. There are three roadway improvement
projects in the study area actively planned to be complete before the 2013 build-out
year.

·   The Town of Cary is currently constructing a widening project on Green Level
    Church Road from McCrimmon Parkway to Carpenter Fire Station Road south of the
    project study area. The project will widen the existing two-lane undivided facility to a
    four-lane divided section with a median. A new traffic signal will be installed at the
    McCrimmon Parkway and Green Level Church intersection. No changes to laneage
    for McCrimmon Parkway approaches are shown on the roadway design plans. The
    project is scheduled for completion by the end of 2011 and will be considered
    complete for all 2013 build-out year analyses for this study.

·   The developer of the Evans Farm residential subdivision is currently constructing
    roadway widening improvements along Green Level Church Road along the
    development's frontage with Green Level Church Road. These improvements
    include pavement widening for northbound Green Level Church Road and a new
    roadway connection from the site to Green Level Church Road that will align with
    existing Horton's Creek Road.

·   The North Carolina Turnpike Authority (NCTA) currently is constructing the Western
    Wake Expressway portion of the Triangle Expressway (Tri-Ex). This facility is
    located to the east of the proposed site and is a six-lane freeway facility that will
    operate as a toll road. Though the facility is not specifically analyzed in this study, it
    will likely affect travel patterns for commuter traffic in the West Cary area. Traffic
    volumes on the paralleling N.C. 55 facility are likely to be impacted, as some current
    traffic will likely shift from N.C. 55 to the Tri-Ex facility. This also may affect local
    commuting patterns on the paralleling Green Level Church Road facility. No specific
    analysis of these potential traffic shifts was made for this study.

Roadway design files and signal plans for the Town of Cary widening project and the
Evan's Farm development project are shown in Appendix C.


II. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT

The land upon which the site will be constructed is currently a mix of undeveloped fields
and partially forested areas with several small structures. A preliminary site plan of the
development can be found in Figure 2. The site plan proposes three external access
local streets. One is located along Green Level Church Road across from Ridgefield
Drive. Two external local street connections are also shown on the plan that would
connect to adjacent neighborhoods in the Weycroft subdivision to the west of the site at
Bolton Grant Drive and Enfield Hill Drive. No analysis of these neighborhood
connections was done for this study. There is notation on the site plan that a 32 foot
right-of-way dedication is to be provided along the site frontage with Green Level
Church Road. No additional improvements/changes to external roadways are shown


                                              5
                                                           Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                          Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

on the site plan. The proposed Pulte Homes development will be built to a maximum of
75 home sites for the purposes of this traffic study. Parking for the home sites will be
provided in individual driveways or along local access streets.


III. TRAFFIC IMPACTS

A. Trip Generation

The projected trips generated by the proposed development were based on information
from the ITE Trip Generation Manual (Institute of Transportation Engineers, 8th Edition,
2007). The number of single family residences was used as the basis for estimating
trips. Trip generation results use the ITE equation-based methodology for number of
single family units to calculate the number of trips, per recommendations from the
NCDOT Congestion Management Unit.

Table 3, below, shows the estimated number of trips generated by the Pulte Homes
Carpenter Property development during the AM and PM peak hours of the adjacent
streets on a typical weekday. No attempt was made to reduce the number of estimated
site trips by a transit factor, due to the small amount of potential ridership in relation to
total trips in the study area and large Triangle Transit and C-Tran bus headways.
Reductions in trip-making due to pass-by type trips were not made for this study, since
this land use type is not typically associated with pass-by trip-making. No reductions in
generated trips were considered for internal purposes. A truck percentage of two
percent was used for all site-generated traffic.

Table 3 shows that, when fully developed, the Pulte Homes development will generate
approximately 798 daily trips, 63 new site trips in the AM peak hour and 81 new site
trips in the PM peak hour.

                                        Table 3
                       Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                       Proposed Pulte Homes Carpenter Property
                 ITE Land Use Code 210 ­ (Single-Family Detached Homes)

   Independent         Time       Generation      % Traffic    % Traffic      TOTAL TRIPS         Total Trips
     Variable         Period        Rate             IN          OUT           IN        OUT      Generated
                       Daily         10.64           50%          50%          399       399           798
     75 homes        AM Peak          0.83           25%          75%          16         47           63
                     PM Peak          1.08           63%          37%          51         30           81
   * -- Generation Rate Calculated from Natural Log Equations and will vary based on independent variable data




                                                       6
                                                Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

B. Background Development Traffic

Background traffic growth in the project study is assumed to be from two sources ­
ambient area-wide traffic growth and from specific background traffic generators. Per
information from previous Traffic Analysis Reports and accounting for potential growth
from numerous developments in the West Cary area that are currently under
construction, an ambient growth rate of 7.5 percent per year was applied to Green Level
Church Road. An ambient growth rate of 10 percent per year was applied to
McCrimmon Parkway, Del Webb Avenue, and Yates Store Road. A comparison of
peak hour turning movement historical data used to generate these ambient growth
rates is found in Appendix D. Growth rates on study area roadways from the in the last
3-4 years has been significant, as the larger developments near the project study area
(Cary Park, Amberly, Stonewater) began to build out. It is assumed that growth over
existing traffic volumes will continue, but not to the extent as has been documented in
the tables in Appendix D. Figure 5 displays 2013 ambient growth estimates for study
area intersections.

The remaining local residential streets from individual subdivisions were studied for
specific background traffic volume growth, based on existing traffic counts at
intersection approaches and/or previous traffic studies. Potential specific site-generated
background traffic for the 2013 design year was investigated for the following partially
constructed or planned developments (per information from the Town of Cary) in Table
4. Table 4 indicates the status of each development as compiled from field observation
of each site.

                Table 4. Background Development Generator Status

                                        TAR                               Include as
Development Name                                 Status
                                          #                               Background?
Stonewater Commercial                    317     No Construction          No (ambient)
Pittard Sears Age-Restr.Residential      314     Beginning Construction   No (ambient)
Pharmacy at OKC and GLD                  293     No Construction          No (ambient)
Evans Farm Update                       167A     Beginning Construction   Yes
OKC and NC 55 Multifamily                284     No Construction          No (ambient)
Alston Ridge Elementary School           258     Complete                 No
Alston Residential                       197     No Construction          No (ambient)
Parkside Commons                         225     Beginning Construction   No (ambient)
McCrimmon & NC 55 Retail                 253     No Construction          No (ambient)
Panther Creek High School               154A     Complete                 No
Camden Townhomes at Cary Park            N/A     50 percent complete      No (ambient)
Weycroft Residential Subdivision         167     66 percent complete      Yes
Horton's Creek Residential Subdiv        N/A     50 percent complete      Yes
Amberly PDD                             127A     Under Construction       No (ambient)
Stonewater PDD                           130     Under Construction       No (ambient)




                                            7
                                                          Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                         Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

Details related to the specific background generating developments are found below.
Appendix D shows specific site traffic assignments from these three developments
that, when combined, equate to data shown in Figure 6 ­ total background traffic.

   ·   Horton's Creek Subdivision ­ 90 home sites. Site field visits estimate about 50
       percent of homes are occupied. Existing traffic volumes to/from the site using
       Horton's Creek Road at Green Level Church Road will be doubled to estimate full
       build-out by 2013.

   ·   Weycroft Subdivision ­ 119 home sites. Site field visits estimate about 66
       percent of homes are occupied. Existing traffic volumes to/from the site using
       Weycroft Avenue at Green Level Church Road and Weycroft Ridge Drive at
       McCrimmon Parkway will be increased by one-third to estimate full build-out by
       2013.

   ·   Evans Farm Subdivision ­ Site infrastructure is currently under construction.
       Review of development plans show that this development will feature 147 single
       family homes and two access points along Green Level Church Road. Review of
       the Town of Cary TAR 167A traffic study provided an estimate for site trip
       distribution, though access point in that study are not the same as shown on the
       approved site plan. Site trip generation for the 147 home sites (assuming all
       completed by 2013) is shown in Table 5 below. Site traffic assignment is shown
       in Appendix D.

                                       Table 5
                      Weekday Vehicle Trip Generation Summary
                     Proposed Evans Farm Residential Background
                ITE Land Use Code 210 ­ (Single-Family Detached Homes)

  Independent         Time       Generation      % Traffic    % Traffic      TOTAL TRIPS         Total Trips
    Variable         Period        Rate             IN          OUT           IN        OUT      Generated
                      Daily         10.08           50%          50%          781       781          1,482
    147 homes       AM Peak          0.77           25%          75%          29         84           113

                    PM Peak          1.01           63%          37%          94         55           149
  * -- Generation Rate Calculated from Natural Log Equations and will vary based on independent variable data

The major Planned Development Districts (PDDs) near the study area ­ Amberly,
Stonewater, and Cary Park have individual phases still under construction, not fully
occupied, or still unbuilt. Due to their size and spatial location outside and around the
specific project study area, their projected traffic growth impacts over the next two years
are accounted for in the aggressive ambient traffic growth rates.

The other nearby residential development currently under construction ­ Camden
Townhomes at Cary Park, is located to the east of the project study area. Considering




                                                      8
                                                 Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                      Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

existing traffic patterns, the majority of any site traffic increase from this development is
likely to be to the east of the project study area.

Other significant developments in/near the project study area listed in Table 4 that are
partially complete or beginning construction were assumed to contribute to traffic growth
in the project study area via percentage increases made for ambient area-wide traffic
growth.

Figure 7 shows the 2013 Without Site Scenario traffic volumes that are a summation of
the 2013 ambient growth volumes and the 2013 specific background generator traffic
volumes.

C. Trip Distribution and Assignment

Existing daily and peak hour traffic patterns were used to determine the directional
traffic characteristics of the additional background and site-generated traffic. Daily
traffic volume information was taken from recent Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT)
data from the NCDOT Traffic Survey Unit. Existing peak hour traffic count data was
also used to determine traffic flow pattern characteristics and to base trip distribution
percentages on these patterns.

Site-related traffic was assumed to use the higher volume arterial study area roadways
(Green Level Church Road and McCrimmon Parkway) to enter/exit the study area. A
higher percentage of traffic was assumed to use McCrimmon Parkway east of Green
Level Church Road, since it is the most direct connection from the site to/from the
N.C.55 corridor

Site trips were also assumed to use either the proposed "main" entrance across from
existing Ridgefield Drive, or potentially to use local street connections to access
McCrimmon Parkway via Weyfield Ridge Road. Traffic was assumed to access the site
via the most direct, convenient path from the home sites shown on the proposed site
plan.

Figure 8 shows the trip distribution percentage breakout used for the 2013 site traffic.
Figure 9 shows the corresponding site traffic volume assignments, based on the trip
generation rates, for the 2013 final build-out analysis.


IV. IMPACT ANALYSIS

A. Capacity Analysis Methodology

Evaluation of traffic operations on suburban arterials is most effective through the
determination of level of service (LOS) criteria. The concept of level of service
correlates qualitative aspects of traffic flow to quantitative terms. This enables
transportation professionals to take the qualitative issues, such as congestion and


                                             9
                                                        Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                        Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

substandard geometrics, and translate them into measurable quantities, such as
operating speeds and vehicular delays. The 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM
2000) characterizes level of service by letter designations A through F. Level of service
A represents ideal low-volume traffic operations, and level of service F represents over-
saturated high-volume traffic operations. Level of service is measured differently for
various highway facilities, but in general, level of service letter designations are
described by Table 6 below.

                                          Table 6
                           Level of Service (LOS) Characteristics

 Level of Service Description                                           Per Vehicle   Per Vehicle
                                                                           Delay          Delay
                                                                         at Signal    at Stop Sign
 LOS A
    Free flow
    Freedom to select desired speed and maneuver is extremely high
                                                                        < 10.0 sec    < 10.0 sec
    General comfort level and convenience for motorists is excellent
 LOS B
    Stable flow                                                         10.0 ­ 20.0   10.0 ­ 15.0
    Other vehicles in the traffic stream become noticeable                 sec           sec
    Reduction in freedom to maneuver from LOS A
 LOS C
    Stable flow                                                         20.0 ­ 35.0   15.0 ­ 25.0
    Maneuverability and operating speed are significantly affected by
    other vehicles                                                         sec           sec
    General level of comfort and convenience declines noticeably
 LOS D
    High density but stable flow                                        35.0 ­ 55.0   25.0 ­ 35.0
    Speed and freedom to maneuver are severely restricted
    General level of comfort / convenience is poor                         sec           sec
    Small traffic increases will generally cause operational problems
 LOS E
    Unstable flow
    Speed reduced to lower but relatively uniform value                 55.0 ­ 80.0   35.0 ­ 50.0
    Volumes at or near capacity level
    Comfort and convenience are extremely poor                             sec           sec
    Small flow increases or minor traffic stream disturbances will
    cause breakdowns
 LOS F
    Forced or breakdown flow
    Volumes exceed roadway capacity                                     > 80.0 sec    > 50.0 sec
    Formation of unstable queues
    Stoppages for long periods of time due to traffic congestion

The minimum acceptable level of service established for this project is LOS D based on
average peak hour volumes, or no increase in delay for intersections operating below
the LOS D threshold without the inclusion of site traffic during morning and afternoon
peak hours. The following four conditions were evaluated for this analysis:

Condition 1 - 2011 Existing Year Traffic


                                                   10
                                                     Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                       Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

Condition 2 - 2013 Design Year Traffic without Site Traffic
Condition 3 - 2013 Design Year Traffic with Site Traffic
Condition 4 - 2013 Design Year Traffic with Site Traffic and Improvements
              (For all intersections/critical intersection movements operating worse
            than a LOS D, where applicable)

Future signal plans for the proposed traffic signal in the study area were obtained from
Town of Cary staff. Information from the plans related to signal timing minimums and
phasing sequences were used for all conditions in this analysis.

The results of this analysis are based on the LOS and delay procedures presented in
the HCM 2000. To obtain optimized signal timings for the future actuated signal, the
timing optimization software Synchro Professional Version 7.0 was used to evaluate an
optimal cycle length for the given planned timing and phasing parameters and 2013
build-out year volumes. The methodology of evaluating each condition is presented
below:

·   Condition 1 ­ No traffic signals in the project study area.

·   Conditions 2 & 3 ­ Use information from the Town of Cary signal plans as inputs for signal
    phasing and clearance time parameters. Develop optimized cycle length, splits, for the
    individual signalized intersection and report LOS and delay values from Synchro 7.0 (using
    percentile delay formulas). If the intersection operates acceptably with the addition of
    background traffic growth and/or site traffic to the projected timing data, the same cycle
    lengths and splits were used for both Conditions 2 and 3 for that intersection. If the
    intersection falls below an overall LOS D, mitigation strategies related to improving signal
    operations were tested in Condition 4.

·   Condition 4 ­ If new signals are recommended in the project study area, reoptimize
    deficient individual traffic signal operations for beneficial improvements related to signal
    cycle lengths, splits and/or offsets. Both the cycle lengths and offsets will be optimized to
    ensure best progression schemes for through traffic, in this case. Also, evaluate the
    potential for different signal phasing schemes (left-turn lag phases, for example) Retain
    existing split minimums and any pedestrian timing values. Recommendations, if warranted,
    will be made to obtain at least LOS D for each intersection as a whole.

Improvements to deficient intersections in Conditions 2 and 3 were made by first
attempting to create an optimally progressed signal system with acceptable adjustments
to signal phasing, if feasible, and if realistic, based on the need to install new signals
along Green Level Church Road and/or McCrimmon Parkway. If that did not produce
satisfactory results for all intersections, geometric improvements to improve intersection
capacity were considered for the deficient intersections.

Unsignalized intersections were analyzed in HCS+, using HCM delay and LOS
formulas. Their results were evaluated on a per-movement basis, since HCM methods
do not produce overall intersection level of service for unsignalized intersections. Thus,
intersections with deficient movements in Condition 3 may need to have the movements


                                                11
                                                Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

evaluated for improvements in Condition 4. This methodology differs from signalized
intersections, where one or more movements at an intersection may be deficient in
Condition 3, but as long as the overall intersection level of service does not fall below
LOS D, no intersection improvements are deemed necessary.

If HCM analyses indicate abnormally large per-vehicle delay values for relatively low
approach volumes, the intersection under study was input into a traffic microsimulation
model to produce a comparable peak hour evaluation. If the simulation model delay
results indicated wide discrepancies in the per-vehicle delay for the affected
movements, the simulation values will be used instead of the HCM formula results in
determining the need for additional mitigation due to site traffic impact.

Figure 7 shows the estimated traffic volumes for Condition 2 (2013 traffic without site).
Figure 9 shows estimated traffic volumes for Condition 3 (2013 traffic with site).
Condition 1 (existing traffic) was previously shown by Figure 4. Appendix E contains
the Synchro output for Conditions 2 and 3 for the future signalized intersection at Green
Level Church Road and McCrimmon Parkway. Appendix F contains the HCS output
for all the remaining unsignalized intersections under study. Tables 7A and 7B show
the results of these analyses. A discussion of each intersection and its impacts follows
the tables.




                                           12
                                                           Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                          Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

            Table 7A - Level of Service Results for Study Area Intersections

                                               Condition 1      Condition 2      Condition 3    Condition 4
Intersection                                  Existing 2011     2013 No Site     2013 W/Site   2013 Mitigated
                                               AM      PM        AM     PM       AM     PM      AM       PM
McCrimmon Pkwy & Green Lvl Church Rd           N/A      N/A       A        B      A      B      N/A     N/A

EB LT                                           C        D        B        C      B      C
EB TH                                           C        C       N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A
EB THRT                                         B        C        B        C      B      C
WB LT                                           C        E        B        C      B      C
WB TH                                           C        D        B        C      B      C
WB RT                                           B        A        B        C      B      C
NB LTR                                          A        A       N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A
NB LT                                          N/A      N/A       A        A      A      A
NB TH                                          N/A      N/A       A        A      A      A
NB RT                                          N/A      N/A       A        A      A      A
SB LTR                                          A        A       N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A
SB LT                                          N/A      N/A       A        A      A      A
SB THRT                                        N/A      N/A       A        A      A      A
McCrimmon Pkwy & Weycroft Ridge Dr             N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A

EB LT                                           A        A        A        A      A      A
WB LT                                           A        A        A        A      A      A
NB LTR                                          A        A        A        A      A      A
SB LTR                                          A        A        A        B      A      B
McCrimmon Parkway & Yates Store Rd             N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A

EB LTR                                          A        B        B        B      B      B
WB LT                                           B        B        B        B      B      B
WB THRT                                         B        B        B        B      B      B
NB LT                                           A        A        A        A      A      A
SB LT                                           A        A        A        A      A      A
Green Lvl Church Rd & Horton's Creek Rd        N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A

EB LTRT                                         B        C       N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A
EB LTR                                         N/A      N/A       B        C      B      C
WB LTR                                         N/A      N/A       B        C      B      C
NB LT                                           A        A        A        A      A      A
SB LT                                          N/A      N/A       A        A      A      A
Green Level Church Road & Weycroft Ave         N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A

EB LTRT                                         B        B        B        C      B      C
NB LT                                           A        A        A        A      A      A
Green Level Church Rd & Ridgefield Drive       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A
/ Proposed Site Driveway

EB LTR                                           N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A    B      C       B       C
WB LTRT                                           B          A      B       A    N/A    N/A     N/A     N/A
WB LTR                                           N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A    B      A       B       A
NB LTR                                           N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A    A      A      N/A     N/A
NB LT                                            N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A   N/A    N/A      A       A
SB LTR                                            A          A      A       A     A      A      N/A     N/A
SB LT                                            N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A   N/A    N/A      A       A
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made




                                                      13
                                                           Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                          Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

            Table 7B - Delay Results for Study Area Intersections (Sec/Veh)

                                               Condition 1      Condition 2      Condition 3    Condition 4
Intersection                                  Existing 2011     2013 No Site     2013 W/Site   2013 Mitigated
                                               AM      PM        AM     PM       AM     PM      AM      PM
McCrimmon Pkwy & Green Lvl Church Rd           N/A      N/A       8.6     10.2   8.7    10.5   N/A      N/A

EB LT                                          20.7     31.7     18.7     20.5   18.7   21.0
EB TH                                          18.1     23.4     N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A
EB THRT                                        14.4     19.0     17.7     20.7   17.8   21.0
WB LT                                          20.9     40.5     18.3     24.3   18.4   24.6
WB TH                                          17.6     29.9     18.3     23.1   18.3   23.5
WB RT                                          11.9     9.1      19.2     22.1   19.5   23.6
NB LTR                                         7.5      8.8      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A
NB LT                                          N/A      N/A      4.1      4.4    4.2    4.4
NB TH                                          N/A      N/A      6.6      4.3    6.7    4.3
NB RT                                          N/A      N/A      4.2      3.8    4.3    3.8
SB LTR                                         8.6      7.7      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A
SB LT                                          N/A      N/A      4.6      4.5    5.2    4.6
SB THRT                                        N/A      N/A      4.5      7.3    4.6    7.3
McCrimmon Pkwy & Weycroft Ridge Dr             N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

EB LT                                          7.3      7.5      7.4       7.6   7.4    7.6
WB LT                                          7.4      7.3      7.4      7.4    7.4    7.4
NB LTR                                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
SB LTR                                         9.6      9.8      9.8      10.1   9.8    10.2
McCrimmon Parkway & Yates Store Rd             N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

EB LTR                                         10.0     10.2     10.3     10.5   10.3   10.5
WB LT                                          11.7     11.1     12.6     11.8   12.6   11.8
WB THRT                                        10.2     10.5     10.8     10.9   10.8   10.9
NB LT                                          7.3      7.9      7.3      8.1    7.3    8.1
SB LT                                          8.2      7.4      8.4      7.4    8.4    7.4
Green Lvl Church Rd & Horton's Creek Rd        N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

EB LTRT                                        11.7     15.4     N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A
EB LTR                                         N/A      N/A      14.1     20.2   14.2   20.4
WB LTR                                         N/A      N/A      14.3     16.0   14.4   16.1
NB LT                                          7.5      9.2      7.6      9.9    7.6    10.0
SB LT                                          N/A      N/A      8.8      7.7    8.8    7.7
Green Level Church Road & Weycroft Ave         N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A

EB LTRT                                        11.7     13.5     13.7     17.9   13.9   18.8
NB LT                                          7.5      7.3      7.6      9.7    7.6    9.7
Green Level Church Rd & Ridgefield Drive       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A      N/A
/ Proposed Site Driveway

EB LTR                                           N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A   11.9   18.4   11.9    18.2
WB LTRT                                          11.9       9.0    13.1    9.0   N/A    N/A    N/A     N/A
WB LTR                                           N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A   14.0   9.4    14.0    9.4
NB LTR                                           N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A   7.7    9.7    N/A     N/A
NB LT                                            N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A   N/A    N/A    7.7     9.7
SB LTR                                           8.4        7.5    8.7     7.5   8.7    7.7    N/A     N/A
SB LT                                            N/A        N/A    N/A     N/A   N/A    N/A    8.7     7.7
N/A => Not Applicable, i.e. movement is non-existent or no improvements made




                                                      14
                                                 Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

B. Capacity Analysis Results for Study Area Intersections

   i.) Condition 1 ­ Existing 2011
   As shown in Tables 7A and 7B, all intersections in the project study area currently
   operate acceptably in the existing 2011 AM and PM peak hour capacity analyses,
   except for the westbound stop-controlled left-turn movement on McCrimmon
   Parkway at its intersection with Green Level Church Road in the PM peak hour.

   ii.) Condition 2 ­ 2013 Without Site Traffic
   The addition of ambient area-wide traffic growth estimates along with specific
   background development traffic from the Weycroft, Horton's Creek, and Evans Farm
   residential developments will increase delays at all intersections in 2013. However,
   no stop-controlled intersection would require mitigation to meet Town of Cary APFO
   thresholds for this study. Existing PM peak hour deficiencies at the McCrimmon
   Parkway and Green Level Church Road intersection will be mitigated by the Town of
   Cary Green Level Church Road widening project, which will provide a new traffic
   signal at this location prior to the 2013 analysis year.

   iii.) Condition 3 ­ 2013 With Site Traffic
   The addition of traffic generated by the Pulte Homes project will marginally increase
   delays for most study area intersections. No new operational deficiencies are
   expected.

   iv.) Condition 4 ­ 2013 Mitigated With Site Traffic
   No additional mitigation of traffic operations at study area intersections is required to
   meet Town APFO standards. However, to meet Town of Cary Comprehensive
   Transportation Plan recommendations, the site parcel frontage along Green Level
   Church Road will need to designated right-of-way to allow for an ultimate six-lane
   roadway section with divided median. Comparable to improvements completed for
   the Weycroft, Horton's Creek, and Evans Farm subdivisions, additional turn lanes
   were studied at the Green Level Church Road/Ridgefield Drive intersection. The
   proposed site access onto Green Level Church Road is shown on the site plan to
   form the fourth leg of this intersection. Capacity analysis results for these additional
   turn lanes (northbound left-turn/southbound left-turn and right-turn) shows only a
   marginal benefit to stop-controlled delays. However, these improvements provide
   safety benefits by removing turning traffic from the high volume two-lane Green
   Level Church Road traffic stream.




                                            15
                                                 Town of Cary: Traffic Analysis Report 325
                     Pulte Homes / Carpenter Property -- Proposed Residential Development

V. SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS

In conclusion, only one of the six existing intersections experiences deficient operations
in the 2011 existing scenario. In the 2013 design year no-build scenario, none of the
study area intersection operations are projected to drop below Town of Cary LOS D
thresholds for adequate traffic operations in the Base Transportation Zone. The existing
deficiency at the intersection of Green Level Church Road and McCrimmon Parkway
will be mitigated by the Town of Cary Green Level Church Widening project that
provides a traffic signal at this intersection. The addition of site generated traffic from
the proposed Pulte Homes development will not cause any additional intersections to
drop to a deficient LOS in either peak hour in the 2013 design year build scenario.

To comply with the vision of the Town of Cary 2008 Comprehensive Transportation
Plan, (CTP) additional right-of-way designation would be required along the Pulte
Homes site frontage with Green Level Church Road to provide space for an ultimate six-
lane roadway with divided median (124 foot total right-of-way width). Similar to nearby
widening already complete, or under construction, along Green Level Church Road for
private development projects, the roadway cross-section of Green Level Church Road
along the Pulte Homes site frontage should be widened to provide additional usable
pavement for northbound and southbound auxiliary turn lanes into the Pulte Homes site.
This would also allow for the development of a southbound left-turn lane into the
existing Ridgefield Drive residential area. Providing the auxiliary turn lanes provides
marginal benefits in terms of capacity and delay reduction for stop-controlled
movements at the intersection, but will provide a safety benefit of removing turning
vehicles from the through traffic stream on Green Level Church Road. Figure 11 shows
these recommended improvements. Additional details for these recommended
improvements are listed below.

·   The recommended southbound right-turn lane will ultimately become a through
    travel lane when Green Level Church Road is widened for a consistent six-lane
    divided cross-section to meet CTP requirements. At that time, a separate auxiliary
    right-turn lane will not be needed.

·   The recommended northbound left-turn lane is considered a temporary
    improvement, as the intersection of Green Level Church Road and Ridgefield
    Drive/Site Access Driveway may be ultimately median divided and limited to right-
    turns in and out of the minor street access approaches. Weycroft Avenue, which is
    shown as a future collector street on CTP diagrams (Figure 7.14 in the CTP) may
    become a nearby full access intersection. Since the Pulte Homes site plan shows
    local neighborhood access to streets in the Weycroft Subdivision, these internal
    connections would allow usage of Weycroft Avenue for full access to Green Level
    Church Road. No specific analysis of site traffic redistributions due to these
    potential changes was made for this study.




                                            16
Appendix A ­ Figures
                                                              LEGEND

                                                                    Existing
                                                                 Intersections




                www.mapquest.com, 2008
            d
        Roa
   tore
 sSe
Yat




                                              d R
                                           urch
                                              h
                                         vel C
                                     n Le
                                    Gree




                                                                   www.maps.google.com, 2011



                                                        Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                    Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                           N             Residential Development
                                                         SITE LOCATION MAP
                                     NOT                   DATE: October 2011
                                     TO
                                    SCALE                     FIGURE 1
                                                      NOT
                                             N         TO
                                                     SCALE




                                   PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
      Town of Cary TAR 325
Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property     DATE: October 2011
     Residential Development
                                        FIGURE 2
                                      Horton's Creek                                           Ridgefield                                McCrimmon
                                          Road                                                   Road                                     Parkway




                                                                                                                                  DROP


                                                                                                                                            450'
                                                                                     125'
                                                  200'
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                   Green Level
Church Road                                                                                                                                                                   Church Road
                                  200'
                                                                   225'




                                                                                                                                                                   ADD 150'
                                                                                                                                                   275'
                                  275'




                                      Hortons Creek                       Weycroft            Site Access
                                          Road                            Avenue               Driveway




                                                                                                                                          50'
                                                                                              TAR 325 SITE
                                                                                                                     Weycroft                                                  Weycroft
                                                                                                                    Ridge Drive                                               Ridge Drive




                                                                                                                                                          100'
                                                                                                                                          125'
              LEGEND

       Laneage, Geometrics and                                                                                                                                   250'
                                                                                               Yates Store                                                                    Yates Store
       Traffic Control As Shown
                                                                                                  Road                                                                           Road
          = Under Construction                                                                                                    250'




                                                                                            2011 EXISTING LANEAGE
                                             NOT               Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                              DATE: October 2011                  Del Webb Avenue
                                             TO          Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                  N




                                            SCALE             Residential Development
                                                                                                FIGURE 3
                                     Horton's Creek                                                            Ridgefield                                                McCrimmon
                                         Road                                                                    Road                                                     Parkway
                                                                                                           4              0                                              79             146
                                                                                                          (2)            (3)                                           (157)           (155)


                                                                                                         3 1                                                       43 27 9                            509
                 475                                                                                                                                                                     59 (23)
                                                                                     462 (120)          (2) (0)                                                   (33) (73) (51)                     (158)
                (114)                             457 (105)                                                                    0 (2)                                                     422 (113)
                                                                                     15 (17)                                                                                             28 (22)
                                                  12 (14)                                                                      452 (139)
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                                                  Green Level
Church Road                                                    96 (600)                                                                                                                                      Church Road
                               97 (646)
                                                                 6 (30)                               0 (1)                                                       29 (82)
                 106             9 (23)                                        24 24                                                                                                                  139
                                              18 15                                              138 (624)                                                      105 (520)           20 58 25
                (669)                                                          (8) (8)                                                                             8 (18)                            (596)
                                              (9) (9)                                                                                                                               (2) (50) (25)


                                      21         33                    21         48
                                     (37)       (18)                  (47)       (16)

                                     Horton's Creek                       Weycroft                            Site Access
                                         Road                             Avenue                               Driveway


                                                                                                                                                                   23 30 0
                                                                                                                                                          24                              0 (0)        0
                                                                                                                                                                  (10) (114) (1)
                                                                                                                                                         (12)                             0 (0)       (0)
                                                                                                              TAR 325 SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                          0 (0)
                                                                                                                                            Weycroft                                                          Weycroft
                                                                                                                                           Ridge Drive                                                       Ridge Drive
                                                                                                                                                                  19 (15)
                                                                                                                                                          19        0 (0)                              0
                                                                                                                                                         (16)                        1 81 0           (1)
                                                                                                                                                                    0 (1)           (2) (58) (0)




                                                                                                                                                                    22 8 6
              LEGEND                                                                                                                340                                                   29 (14)     349
                                                                                                                                                                    (9) (11) (51)
                                                                                                                                    (61)                                                  314 (51)    (76)
                                                                                                                                                                                          6 (11)
        XXX = AM Peak Hour                                                                                     Yates Store                                                                                   Yates Store
                                                                                                                  Road                                                                                          Road
        (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                                                                                       8 (14)
                                                                                                                                      49                                                              53
                                                                                                                                                                 36 (289)            4 7 11
                                                                                                                                    (306)                                                            (357)
                                                                                                                                                                     5 (3)          (1) (7) (17)



                                                                                                                                                                         19             22
                                                                                                                                                                        (25)           (25)
                                                                                                   2011 EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                             NOT               Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                                              DATE: October 2011                                     Del Webb Avenue
                                              TO         Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                 N




                                            SCALE             Residential Development
                                                                                                                FIGURE 4
                                       Horton's Creek                                                             Ridgefield




                                                                                                                                                                     20%
                                                                                                                                                                             McCrimmon
                                           Road                                                                     Drive                                                     Parkway
                                                                                                              4              0                                              95             171
                                                                                                             (2)            (3)                                            (189)          (180)



   15%                                                                                                      3 1                                                       52 32 11                                585
                 544                                                                                                                                                                        68 (26)                       15%
                                                                                        531 (138)          (2) (0)                                                   (40) (88) (61)                          (181)
                (130)                               526 (121)                                                                     0 (2)                                                     485 (130)
                                                                                        15 (17)                                                                                             32 (25)
                                                    12 (14)                                                                       520 (160)
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                                                          Green Level
Church Road                                                      110 (690)                                                                                                                                           Church Road
                               112 (743)
                                                                    6 (30)                               0 (1)                                                       33 (94)
                 121              9 (23)                                          24 24                                                                                                                       162
                                                18 15                                               159 (718)                                                      121 (598)           24 70 30
                (766)                                                             (8) (8)                                                                             9 (21)                                 (689)
                                                (9) (9)                                                                                                                                (2) (60) (30)


                                        21         33                     21         48
                                       (37)       (18)                   (47)       (16)

                                       Horton's Creek                        Weycroft                            Site Access
                                           Road                              Avenue                               Driveway


                                                                                                                                                                      23 36 0
                                                                                                                                                             23                              0 (0)             0
                                                                                                                                                                     (10) (137) (1)
                                                                                                                                                            (12)                             0 (0)            (0)
                                                                                                                 TAR 325 SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                             0 (0)
                                                                                                                                               Weycroft                                                               Weycroft
                                                                                                                                              Ridge Drive                                                            Ridge Drive
                                                                                                                                                                     19 (15)
                                                                                                                                                             19        0 (0)                                   0
                                                                                                                                                            (16)                        1 97 0                (1)
                                                                                                                                                                       0 (1)           (2) (70) (0)



                        LEGEND

                XXX = AM Peak Hour                                                                                                                                     26 10 7
                                                                                                                                       408                            (11) (13) (61)         35 (17)          419
                                                                                                                     20%                                                                                                  20%
                                                                                                                                       (73)                                                  377 (61)         (91)
               (XXX) = PM Peak Hour
                                                                                                                                                                                             7 (13)
                                                                                                                  Yates Store                                                                                        Yates Store
                         = Assumed Ambient                                                                           Road                                                                                               Road
              20%        Growth Percentage                                                                                                                           10 (17)
                                                                                                                                         59                                                                   63
                         Between 2011-2013                                                                                                                          43 (347)            5 8 13
                                                                                                                                       (368)                                                                 (428)
                                                                                                                                                                        6 (4)          (1) (8) (20)



                                                                                                                                                                             23            26
                                                                                                                                                                            (30)          (29)




                                                                                                                                                                                                       20%
                                                                                                      2013 AMBIENT TRAFFIC GROWTH
                                               NOT               Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                                                 DATE: October 2011                                        Del Webb Avenue
                                               TO          Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                   N




                                              SCALE             Residential Development
                                                                                                                   FIGURE 5
                                       Horton's Creek                                                               Ridgefield                                        McCrimmon
                     Evan's Farm           Road                                                                       Drive                                            Parkway
                     Subdivision
                                        42            27                                                                                                               8               16
                                       (28)          (89)                                                                                                            (13)              (7)


                                 25 0 17                                                                                                                          2 6
               57                                      4 (14)                                                                                                                                     30
                                (17) (0) (11)                                                 18 (33)                                                            (9) (4)
              (35)                                     14 (9)                                                                                                                          24 (33)   (34)
                                                                                              8 (9)                                                                                    6 (1)
                                                       12 (14)                                                                    26 (42)
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                                             Green Level
Church Road                                                             32 (20)                                                                                                                         Church Road
                               23 (75)                                   3 (15)                                                                                   9 (2)
                35              3 (15)                                                  12 12                                                                   32 (22)                           35
                                                  18 0 15                                                44 (24)                                                                    7 3
              (113)             9 (23)                                                  (4) (4)                                                                   3 (0)                          (24)
                                                  (9) (0) (9)                                                                                                                      (5) (2)


                                        21            33                       11             24
                                       (37)          (18)                     (24)            (8)

                                       Horton's Creek                              Weycroft                        Site Access
                                           Road                                    Avenue                           Driveway

                                         Horton's
                                                                                   Weycroft                                                                       12 3
                                          Creek                                                                                                           13
                                                                                  Subdivision                                                                     (5) (0)
                                        Subdivision                                                                                                       (6)
                                                                                                                   TAR 325 SITE
                                                                                                                                             Weycroft                                                    Weycroft
                                                                                                                                            Ridge Drive                                                 Ridge Drive
                                                                                                                                                                 10 (7)
                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                          (8)                     1
                                                                                                                                                                  0 (1)          (1)




                       LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                           (1)          1 (1)      1
                XXX = AM Peak Hour                                                                                                                                                                (1)
               (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                                 Yates Store                                                                         Yates Store
                                                                                                                       Road                                                                                Road
               = Location of Specific Background
               Development Generator                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1)




                                                                                                        2013 TOTAL BACKGROUND TRAFFIC
                                                 NOT                   Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                                                   DATE: October 2011                              Del Webb Avenue
                                                 TO              Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                   N




                                                SCALE                 Residential Development
                                                                                                                     FIGURE 6
                                      Horton's Creek                                                                     Ridgefield                                                McCrimmon
                                          Road                                                                             Drive                                                    Parkway
                                       42             27                                                             4              0                                             103             187
                                      (28)           (89)                                                           (2)            (3)                                           (202)           (187)


                                  25 0 17                                                                          3 1                                                       54 38 11
                 601                                    4 (14)                                                                                                                                     68 (26)      615
                                 (17) (0) (11)                                                 549 (171)          (2) (0)                                                   (49) (92) (61)
                (165)                                   540 (130)                                                                        0 (2)                                                     509 (163)   (215)
                                                                                               23 (26)                                                                                             38 (26)
                                                        24 (28)                                                                          546 (202)
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                                                            Green Level
Church Road                                                             142 (710)                                                                                                                                      Church Road
                                 23 (75)                                   9 (45)                               0 (1)                                                       42 (96)
                 156           115 (758)                                                 36 36                                                                            153 (620)                             197
                                                   36 0 30                                                 203 (742)                                                                          24 77 33
                (879)            18 (46)                                                (12) (12)                                                                           12 (21)                            (713)
                                                  (18) (0) (18)                                                                                                                               (2) (65) (32)


                                       42             66                         32         72
                                      (74)           (36)                       (71)       (24)

                                      Horton's Creek                                Weycroft                            Site Access
                                          Road                                      Avenue                               Driveway


                                                                                                                                                                             35 39 0
                                                                                                                                                                    37                              0 (0)        0
                                                                                                                                                                            (15) (137) (1)
                                                                                                                                                                   (18)                             0 (0)       (0)
                                                                                                                        TAR 325 SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                      Weycroft                                                          Weycroft
                                                                                                                                                     Ridge Drive                                                       Ridge Drive
                                                                                                                                                                            29 (22)
                                                                                                                                                                    29        0 (0)                              0
                                                                                                                                                                   (24)                        2 97 0           (1)
                                                                                                                                                                              0 (2)           (3) (70) (0)




                                                                                                                                                                              26 10 10
              LEGEND                                                                                                                          408                            (11) (13) (62)         36 (18)     420
                                                                                                                                              (73)                                                  377 (61)    (92)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    7 (13)
        XXX = AM Peak Hour                                                                                               Yates Store                                                                                   Yates Store
                                                                                                                            Road                                                                                          Road
        (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                                                                                                10 (17)
                                                                                                                                                59                                                              66
                                                                                                                                                                           43 (347)            5 8 13
                                                                                                                                              (368)                                                            (429)
                                                                                                                                                                               6 (4)          (1) (8) (20)



                                                                                                                                                                                   23             26
                                                                                                                                                                                  (30)           (29)
                                                                                                           2013 TRAFFIC VOLUMES WITHOUT SITE
                                                  NOT                   Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                                                        DATE: October 2011                                     Del Webb Avenue
                                                  TO              Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                  N




                                                 SCALE                 Residential Development
                                                                                                                          FIGURE 7
                                          Horton's Creek                                                          Ridgefield                                                McCrimmon
                                              Road                                                                  Drive                                                    Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                        55%           55%
                                                                                                                                                                       (55%)         (55%)


                                                                                                                                                                    50% 5%                          20%
                  20%                                                                    20% (20%)                                                                 (50%) (5%)
                 (20%)                                20% (20%)                                                                                                                        15% (15%)   (20%)
                                                                                                                               65% (65%)                                               5% (5%)
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                                                Green Level
Church Road                                                       20% (20%)                                                                                                                                Church Road
                                                                                                                                                                 50% (50%)
                   20%           20% (20%)                                                                                                                       15% (15%)                          20%
                  (20%)                                                                                                  20%   65%                                                     5% 5%       (20%)
                                                                                                     20% (20%)
                                                                                                                        (20%) (65%)                                                   (5%) (5%)


                                                                                                            85%             85%
                                                                                                           (85%)           (85%)

                                          Horton's Creek                      Weycroft                           Site Access
                                              Road                            Avenue                              Driveway

                                                                                                                                                                     10%
                                                                                                                                                          15%       (10%)
                                                                                                                                                         (15%)
                                                                                                                 TAR 325 SITE
                                                                                                                                            Weycroft                                                        Weycroft
                                                                                                                                           Ridge Drive                                                     Ridge Drive
                                                                                                                                                                 10% (10%)
                                                                                                                                                          15%
                                                                                                                                                         (15%)                       5%
                                                                                                                                                                   5% (5%)          (5%)




                                                                                                                                                                              5%
                     LEGEND                                                                                                                                                  (5%)      5% (5%)       5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                    (5%)
        XX% / XX% = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                                       Yates Store                                                                              Yates Store
       (XX%) / (XX%) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                                       Road                                                                                     Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                     5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                    (5%)




                                                                                                     SITE TRIP DISTRIBUTION PERCENTAGES
                                                  NOT              Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                                                 DATE: October 2011                                    Del Webb Avenue
                                                  TO         Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                      N




                                                 SCALE            Residential Development
                                                                                                                   FIGURE 8
                                           Horton's Creek                                                    Ridgefield                                          McCrimmon
                                               Road                                                            Drive                                              Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                9            26
                                                                                                                                                              (28)          (17)


                                                                                                                                                          8 1                             3
                    9                                                                      9 (6)                                                         (25) (3)
                   (6)                                 9 (6)                                                                                                                    2 (8)   (10)
                                                                                                                           10 (33)                                              1 (2)
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                                    Green Level
Church Road                                                            3 (10)                                                                                                                  Church Road
                                                                                                                                                         24 (15)
                   3                  3 (10)                                                                                                               7 (5)                        10
                  (10)                                                                                                9      31                                              2 3        (6)
                                                                                                   3 (10)
                                                                                                                     (6)     (20)                                           (2) (1)


                                                                                                       13               40
                                                                                                      (43)             (26)

                                           Horton's Creek                       Weycroft                    Site Access
                                               Road                             Avenue                       Driveway

                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                           (5)
                                                                                                                                                   (8)
                                                                                                            TAR 325 SITE
                                                                                                                                      Weycroft                                                  Weycroft
                                                                                                                                     Ridge Drive                                               Ridge Drive
                                                                                                                                                            5 (3)
                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                   (4)                     1
                                                                                                                                                            2 (1)         (3)




                                                                                                                                                                     2
                    LEGEND                                                                                                                                          (1)         1 (3)     1
                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)
         XX / XX = AM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                                   Yates Store                                                                       Yates Store
        (XX) / (XX) = PM Peak Hour Enter/Exit                                                                   Road                                                                              Road
                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)




                                                                                                   2013 SITE TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT
                                                  NOT                Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                                            DATE: October 2011                              Del Webb Avenue
                                                  TO           Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                       N




                                                 SCALE              Residential Development
                                                                                                              FIGURE 9
                                      Horton's Creek                                                                    Ridgefield                                                 McCrimmon
                                          Road                                                                            Drive                                                     Parkway
                                       42             27                                                             4            0                                               112             213
                                      (28)           (89)                                                           (2)          (3)                                             (230)           (204)


                                  25 0 17                                                                                                                                    62 39 11
                 610                                    4 (14)                                                  3 0 1                                                                              68 (26)      618
                                 (17) (0) (11)                                                 558 (177)                              0 (2)                                 (74) (95) (61)
                (171)                                   549 (136)                                              (2) (0) (0)                                                                         511 (171)   (225)
                                                                                               23 (26)                                546 (202)
                                                        24 (28)                                                                       10 (33)                                                      39 (28)
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                                                            Green Level
Church Road                                                             145 (720)                                                                                                                                      Church Road
                                 23 (75)                                   9 (45)                               0 (1)                                                      66 (111)
                 159           118 (768)                                                 36 36                                                                            160 (625)                             207
                                                   36 0 30                                                 203 (742)            9 0 31                                                        24 79 36
                (889)            18 (46)                                                (12) (12)                                                                           12 (21)                            (719)
                                                  (18) (0) (18)                                               3 (10)           (6) (0) (20)                                                   (2) (67) (33)


                                       42             66                         32         72                      13             40
                                      (74)           (36)                       (71)       (24)                    (43)           (26)

                                      Horton's Creek                                Weycroft                            Site Access
                                          Road                                      Avenue                               Driveway


                                                                                                                                                                             37 39 0
                                                                                                                                                                    40                              0 (0)        0
                                                                                                                                                                            (20) (137) (1)
                                                                                                                                                                   (26)                             0 (0)       (0)
                                                                                                                        TAR 325 SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                      Weycroft                                                          Weycroft
                                                                                                                                                     Ridge Drive                                                       Ridge Drive
                                                                                                                                                                            34 (25)
                                                                                                                                                                    36        0 (0)                              0
                                                                                                                                                                   (28)                        3 97 0           (1)
                                                                                                                                                                              2 (3)           (6) (70) (0)




                                                                                                                                                                              26 10 12
              LEGEND                                                                                                                          408                            (11) (13) (63)         37 (21)     421
                                                                                                                                              (73)                                                  377 (61)    (95)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    7 (13)
        XXX = AM Peak Hour                                                                                              Yates Store                                                                                    Yates Store
                                                                                                                           Road                                                                                           Road
        (XXX) = PM Peak Hour                                                                                                                                                10 (17)
                                                                                                                                              59                                                                68
                                                                                                                                                                           43 (347)            5 8 13
                                                                                                                                            (368)                                                              (430)
                                                                                                                                                                               6 (4)          (1) (8) (20)



                                                                                                                                                                                   23             26
                                                                                                                                                                                  (30)           (29)
                                                                                                            2013 TRAFFIC VOLUMES WITH SITE
                                                  NOT                   Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                                                    DATE: October 2011                                         Del Webb Avenue
                                                  TO              Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                  N




                                                 SCALE                 Residential Development
                                                                                                                          FIGURE 10
                                     Horton's Creek                                                    Ridgefield                                      McCrimmon
                                         Road                                                            Road                                           Parkway




                                                                                                                                             DROP


                                                                                                                                                       450'
                                                                                                                                                                               DROP
                                                                                    125'                            100' MIN                                                   275'
                                                 200'
Green Level                                                                                                                                                                                   Green Level
Church Road                                                                                                                                                                                   Church Road
                                 200'
                                                                  225'                      100' MIN                                            25'
                                 275'




                                                                                                                                                                                   ADD 150'
                                                                                                                                                                       275'
                                                                                            100' MIN




                                     Hortons Creek                       Weycroft                  Site Access
                                         Road                            Avenue                     Driveway




                                                                                                                                                              50'
                                              Green Level Church Road Frontage to be
                                              Widened by Developer to Adhere to Future                 TAR 325 SITE
                                                Cross-Section Recommended in 2008                                               Weycroft                                                       Weycroft
                                                Comprehensive Transportation Plan                                              Ridge Drive                                                    Ridge Drive




                                                                                                                                                                     100'
                                                                                                                                                              125'
              LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                            250'
                = Background Improvement To Be Complete By                                             Yates Store                                                                            Yates Store
                2013 Build-Out Year
                                                                                                          Road                                                                                   Road
                                                                                                                                                    250'
                = Recommended Improvement to Meet Town CTP




                                                                                           BACKGROUND & RECOMMENDED IMPROVEMENTS
                                            NOT               Town of Cary TAR 325
                                                                                                          DATE: October 2011                        Del Webb Avenue
                                            TO          Pulte Homes ­ Carpenter Property
                                 N




                                           SCALE             Residential Development
                                                                                                            FIGURE 11
Appendix B ­ Traffic Count Data
                                          Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                               6750 Tryon Road
                                                                Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                               (919) 851-1912             File Name      : McCrimmon @ Green Level
Weather: cold                                                                               Site Code      : 00000002
Signal ID: flashing yellow                                                                  Start Date     : 2/22/2011
Peds: counted                                                                               Page No        :1


                                                          Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                   Green Level Church Road         McCrimmon Parkway          Green Level Church Road         McCrimmon Parkway
                         Southbound                   Westbound                      Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time       Right   Thru    Left Trucks   Right  Thru   Left Trucks Right      Thru    Left Trucks   Right  Thru   Left Trucks Int. Total
     06:30 AM         0      6      1       0       2     3     1        0      6      23       0      0       2     8      0      0        52
     06:45 AM         0      9     11       0       5     2     5        0     27      28       0      0       1    15      3      0       106
         Total        0     15     12       0       7     5     6        0     33      51       0      0       3    23      3      0       158

     07:00 AM        2     17       8      0      21     10      17      1     80      38      4      1       1     17       4      0      221
     07:15 AM        0     11      14      0      25      7      23      2     61      67      0      0       2     19       1      0      232
     07:30 AM        2     21       5      0      18      3      20      0     11      64      2      1       6     16       2      1      172
     07:45 AM        2     29       4      0       9     10       3      1     14      85     10      0       3     17       2      1      190
         Total       6     78      31      0      73     30      63      4    166     254     16      2      12     69       9      2      815

     08:00 AM        2     30       4      1      14      3       1      0     11     112      6      1       8     18       8      1      220
     08:15 AM        2     25      11      1      13      4       3      0     21     118      5      5       6     10       3      0      227
     08:30 AM        2     21      10      3       7     10       2      2     13     107      7      1       8     13       7      0      213
     08:45 AM        2     16      13      0      14      7       0      1     23      80      4      1       8     14       4      1      188
         Total       8     92      38      5      48     24       6      3     68     417     22      8      30     55      22      2      848

      09:00 AM       1     22       6      0      16     10       4      1     11     115      8      4       3      8       5      0      214
      09:15 AM       0     16       8      3       6      8       2      0     11      70      6      0       8      6       6      0      150
*** BREAK ***
          Total      1     38      14      3      22     18       6      1     22     185     14      4      11     14      11      0      364

*** BREAK ***

     03:30 PM        3     35       5      5      10      6       3      0      5      24      5      2       1      8       1      1      114
     03:45 PM        1     23       4      2       5     12       6      1      5      22      9      1       1      3       1      1       97
         Total       4     58       9      7      15     18       9      1     10      46     14      3       2     11       2      2      211

     04:00 PM        2     45      10      3      12     12      12      0      7      23      2      5       5      8       0      1      147
     04:15 PM        2     47       8      4      11     14      20      0     11      17      4      1       3      5       2      0      149
     04:30 PM        2     51      10      0       5     11      21      0      8      17      6      5       4     11       1      0      152
     04:45 PM        6     73       6      1       5     15      16      0      9      28      7      1       4      5       0      0      176
         Total      12    216      34      8      33     52      69      0     35      85     19     12      16     29       3      1      624

     05:00 PM        2     78      16      0       5     12      26      0     10      25      3      0       6     13       0      0      196
     05:15 PM        4    118      22      0       6     10      17      0      3      25      5      0       2      9       1      0      222
     05:30 PM        4    161      23      0       2     15      14      0      4      26      6      0       6      9       1      0      271
     05:45 PM        4    138      23      0       8     27      10      0      7      32      8      1       6     12       0      0      276
         Total      14    495      84      0      21     64      67      0     24     108     22      1      20     43       2      0      965

     06:00 PM        6    116      19       0      8      18      15     0       5     28      2       0      4     13       0      0      234
     06:15 PM        4    105      17       0     15      13      12     0       7     27      6       0      9     16       1      0      232
   Grand Total      55   1213     258      23    242     242     253     9     370   1201    115      30    107    273      53      7     4451
    Apprch %       3.6   78.3    16.7     1.5   32.4    32.4    33.9   1.2    21.6     70    6.7     1.7   24.3     62      12    1.6
       Total %     1.2   27.3     5.8     0.5    5.4     5.4     5.7   0.2     8.3     27    2.6     0.7    2.4    6.1     1.2    0.2
                                                            Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                                6750 Tryon Road
                                                                                 Cary, NC 27518
School                                                                            (919) 851-1912                                    File Name        : McCrimmon @ Green Level
Weather:                                                                                                                            Site Code        : 00000002
Signal ID:                                                                                                                          Start Date       : 2/22/2011
Peds                                                                                                                                Page No          :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Peds

                          Southbound                                     Westbound                                           Northbound                            Eastbound
 Start Time       Right   Thru    Left                  Trucks   Right   Thru   Left            Trucks       Right           Thru    Left   Trucks   Right         Thru   Left   Trucks   Int. Total
*** BREAK ***
      06:45 AM       0       0          0                   0       0       0       0                0                0         3      0        0              0         0   0       0            3
          Total      0       0          0                   0       0       0       0                0                0         3      0        0              0         0   0       0            3

*** BREAK ***

      08:00 AM       0       1          0                   0       0       0       0                0                0         0      0        0              0         0   0       0            1
*** BREAK ***
          Total      0       1          0                   0       0       0       0                0                0         0      0        0              0         0   0       0            1

*** BREAK ***

   Grand Total       0       1          0                   0       0       0       0                0                0         3      0        0              0         0   0       0            4
    Apprch %         0     100          0                   0       0       0       0                0                0       100      0        0              0         0   0       0
      Total %        0      25          0                   0       0       0       0                0                0        75      0        0              0         0   0       0



                                                                                  Out               In              Total
                                                                                            3            1              4


                                                                                    0     1                     0        0
                                                                                Right Thru               Left       Trucks
                                 0


                                           0




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                             Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                  North
                                                        0
                                       Trucks Right Thru
                                   0
                             In




                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                                 2/22/2011 06:30 AM
                                                  0




                                                                                 2/22/2011 06:15 PM
                                                                                                                                                     Left Trucks



                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                   0




                                                                                 Peds
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                 Left           Thru Right Trucks
                                                                                        0           3    0      0


                                                                                            1            3              4
                                                                                  Out               In              Total
                                                                        Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
School                                                                                              (919) 851-1912                                       File Name               : McCrimmon @ Green Level
Weather:                                                                                                                                                 Site Code               : 00000002
Signal ID:                                                                                                                                               Start Date              : 2/22/2011
Peds                                                                                                                                                     Page No                 :2



                         Southbound                    Westbound                                                                                  Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total Right Thru Left Trucks                                             App. Total    Right         Thru    Left Trucks    App. Total   Right         Thru   Left Trucks       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:30 AM to 12:30 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:30 AM
  06:30 AM      0       0      0     0        0    0   0    0     0                                                     0                0        0     0      0           0            0        0          0      0           0            0
  06:45 AM      0       0      0     0        0    0   0    0     0                                                     0                0        3     0      0            3           0        0          0      0           0             3
  07:00 AM      0       0      0     0        0    0   0    0     0                                                     0                0        0     0      0           0            0        0          0      0           0            0
  07:15 AM      0       0      0     0        0    0   0    0     0                                                     0                0        0     0      0           0            0        0          0      0           0            0
 Total Volume   0       0      0     0        0    0   0    0     0                                                     0                0        3     0      0           3            0        0          0      0           0            3
% App. Total      0      0      0           0                                  0      0      0       0                               0        100        0      0                   0             0          0      0
       PHF     .000   .000   .000        .000                        .000   .000   .000   .000    .000              .000          .000       .250     .000   .000      .250      .000          .000       .000   .000      .000         .250



                                                                                                    Out                 In               Total
                                                                                                             3                0              3


                                                                                                     0     0                         0        0
                                                                                                 Right Thru                   Left       Trucks




                                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                   0


                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                               Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                                                     0


                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                      North
                                                                 0
                                                Trucks Right Thru
                                     0
                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                           0



                                                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 06:30 AM
                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                 Left Trucks



                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                             Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                     0
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                  Left           Thru Right Trucks
                                                                                                         0           3    0      0


                                                                                                             0                3              3
                                                                                                    Out                 In               Total
                                                                         Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                                                  6750 Tryon Road
                                                                                                   Cary, NC 27518
School                                                                                               (919) 851-1912                                       File Name               : McCrimmon @ Green Level
Weather:                                                                                                                                                  Site Code               : 00000002
Signal ID:                                                                                                                                                Start Date              : 2/22/2011
Peds                                                                                                                                                      Page No                 :3


                         Southbound                           Westbound                                                                         Northbound                                         Eastbound
               Rig Thr                                      Thr                                                                               Thr                                               Thr
 Start Time                 Left    Trucks App. Total Right     Left Trucks                                       App. Total    Right              Left Trucks       App. Total   Right              Left Trucks         App. Total   Int. Total
                ht      u                                     u                                                                                 u                                                 u
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:45 PM to 06:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:45 PM
  12:45 PM       0      0      0        0         0      0    0    0     0                                               0                0        0     0      0           0            0        0          0      0           0            0
  01:00 PM       0      0      0        0         0      0    0    0     0                                               0                0        0     0      0           0            0        0          0      0           0            0
  01:15 PM       0      0      0        0         0      0    0    0     0                                               0                0        0     0      0           0            0        0          0      0           0            0
  01:30 PM       0      0      0        0         0      0    0    0     0                                               0                0        0     0      0           0            0        0          0      0           0            0
 Total Volume    0      0      0        0         0      0    0    0     0                                               0                0        0     0      0           0            0        0          0      0           0            0
 % App. Total      0      0      0           0                                  0      0      0       0                               0          0        0      0                   0             0          0      0
        PHF     .000   .000   .000        .000                        .000   .000   .000   .000    .000              .000          .000       .000     .000   .000      .000      .000          .000       .000   .000      .000         .000



                                                                                                     Out                 In               Total
                                                                                                              0                0              0


                                                                                                      0     0                         0        0
                                                                                                  Right Thru                   Left       Trucks




                                                                                                  Peak Hour Data
                                    0


                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                       North
                                                                  0
                                                 Trucks Right Thru
                                      0
                                In




                                                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 12:45 PM
                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                  Left Trucks



                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                              Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                      0
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                   Left           Thru Right Trucks
                                                                                                          0           0    0      0


                                                                                                              0                0              0
                                                                                                     Out                 In               Total
                                                               Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                        6750 Tryon Road
                                                                         Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                         (919) 851-1912              File Name    : McCrimmon @ Green Level
Weather: cold                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000002
Signal ID: flashing yellow                                                                             Start Date   : 2/22/2011
Peds: counted                                                                                          Page No      :2

                                                                          Green Level Church Road
                                                                          Out        In      Total
                                                                           1496     1549      3045


                                                                            55 1213       258     23
                                                                         Right Thru      Left Trucks
                                     852


                                             53




                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                  Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                      242



                                                                                                                                  Out
                   McCrimmon Parkway




                                                                                                                                   McCrimmon Parkway
                                                                                                                                   901
                                                                                   North
                                                         273
                                           Trucks Right Thru




                                                                                                                           242
                           440
                           In




                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                         2/22/2011 06:30 AM




                                                                                                                                           746
                                                    107




                                                                         2/22/2011 06:15 PM




                                                                                                                    Left Trucks
                                                                                                                     253
                    412




                                                                         Cars & Trucks
                   Out




                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                7




                                                                                                                                                  1647
                                                                                                                              9

                                                                         Left Thru Right Trucks
                                                                          115 1201   370     30


                                                                           1573     1716      3289
                                                                          Out        In      Total
                                                                          Green Level Church Road
                                                                                Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                                                    6750 Tryon Road
                                                                                                     Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                                                    (919) 851-1912                    File Name    : McCrimmon @ Green Level
Weather: cold                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00000002
Signal ID: flashing yellow                                                                                                              Start Date   : 2/22/2011
Peds: counted                                                                                                                           Page No      :3


                Green Level Church Road               McCrimmon Parkway            Green Level Church Road             McCrimmon Parkway
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                         Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total                                                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:30 AM to 12:30 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM      2      29      4     0       35     9   10    3     1      23     14    85    10     0    109        3    17     2    1        23                                                         190
  08:00 AM      2      30      4     1       37    14    3    1     0      18     11 112       6     1    130        8    18     8    1        35                                                         220
  08:15 AM      2      25     11     1       39    13    4    3     0      20     21 118       5     5    149        6    10     3    0        19                                                          227
  08:30 AM      2      21     10     3       36     7   10    2     2      21     13 107       7     1    128        8    13     7    0        28                                                         213
 Total Volume   8 105         29     5     147     43   27    9     3      82     59 422      28     7    516       25    58    20    2     105                                                           850
% App. Total     5.4   71.4   19.7                    3.4                        52.4   32.9   11    3.7                11.4   81.8   5.4   1.4      23.8          55.2                     19   1.9
       PHF     1.000


                                                                                                     Green Level Church Road
                                                                                                     Out        In      Total
                                                                                                       485       147      632


                                                                                                        8  105        29      5
                                                                                                    Right Thru      Left Trucks




                                                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                                168


                                                              20




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                             Total




                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                        43
                              McCrimmon Parkway




                                                                                                                                                                     McCrimmon Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                     146
                                                                                                                North
                                                                           58
                                                            Trucks Right Thru
                                      105




                                                                                                                                                             27
                                      In




                                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                              82
                                                                      25




                                                                                                                                                     Left Trucks




                                                                                                Cars & Trucks
                                                                                                                                                         9
                                63
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                 2




                                                                                                                                                                                     228
                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                     Left Thru Right Trucks
                                                                                                       28  422    59      7


                                                                                                       139       516      655
                                                                                                     Out        In      Total
                                                                                                     Green Level Church Road
                                                                                   Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                                                            6750 Tryon Road
                                                                                                             Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                                                            (919) 851-1912                      File Name          : McCrimmon @ Green Level
Weather: cold                                                                                                                                     Site Code          : 00000002
Signal ID: flashing yellow                                                                                                                        Start Date         : 2/22/2011
Peds: counted                                                                                                                                     Page No            :4

                Green Level Church Road               McCrimmon Parkway            Green Level Church Road             McCrimmon Parkway
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                         Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total Right Thru Left Trucks App. Total                                                                        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:45 PM to 06:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:30 PM
  05:30 PM      4 161         23     0      188     2   15   14     0      31      4    26     6     0       36      6     9     1    0        16                                                                             271
  05:45 PM      4 138         23     0     165      8   27   10     0      45      7    32     8     1       48      6    12     0    0        18                                                                              276
  06:00 PM      6 116         19     0     141      8   18   15     0      41      5    28     2     0       35      4    13     0    0        17                                                                            234
  06:15 PM      4 105         17     0     126     15   13   12     0      40      7    27     6     0       40      9    16     1    0        26                                                                            232
 Total Volume  18 520         82     0     620     33   73   51     0   157       23 113      22     1    159       25    50     2    0        77                                                                           1013
% App. Total    2.9   83.9   13.2                       0                                21   46.5   32.5       0                14.5   71.1   13.8     0.6          32.5          64.9                2.6      0
       PHF     .750   .807   .891                    .000                       .824   .550   .676   .850    .000       .872     .821   .883   .688   .250    .828   .694          .781              .500    .000   .740      .918


                                                                                                             Green Level Church Road
                                                                                                             Out        In      Total
                                                                                                               148       620      768


                                                                                                               18  520           82      0
                                                                                                            Right Thru         Left Trucks




                                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                                               190


                                                                2




                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                            Total




                                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                                        33
                             McCrimmon Parkway




                                                                                                                                                                                     McCrimmon Parkway
                                                                                                                                                                                     155
                                                                                                                         North
                                                                           50
                                                            Trucks Right Thru
                                       77




                                                                                                                                                                             73
                                     In




                                                                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 05:30 PM

                                                                                                                                                                                            157
                                                                      25




                                                                                                                                                                     Left Trucks


                                                                                                        Cars & Trucks
                                                                                                                                                                       51
                              113
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                     312
                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                             Left Thru Right Trucks
                                                                                                               22  113    23      1


                                                                                                               596       159      755
                                                                                                             Out        In      Total
                                                                                                             Green Level Church Road
                                                            HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                                343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                                       Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection: McCrimmonPkwy-Weycroft                                                                                           File Name         : AM McCrimmonPkwy-Weycroft
Date: 3-9-2011                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
Counters: JJB                                                                                                                  Start Date        : 3/9/2011
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                   MCCRIMMON                                  MCCRIMMON                                                                                         WEYCROFT
                       Eastbound                                  Westbound                        Northbound                                                   Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                              App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 07:45 AM        0    13     0    0               13        0     9     9     0      18      0      0     0   0                                     0      7     0     0    0           7          38
      Total      0    13     0    0               13        0     9     9     0      18      0      0     0   0                                     0      7     0     0    0           7          38

 08:00 AM         0     18     0      0           18          0             8       6      0              14       0       0     0     0            0       1    0      0   0          1          33
 08:15 AM         1     19     0      1           21          0             7       4      0              11       0       0     0     0            0       7    0      0   0          7          39
 08:30 AM         0     32     0      0           32          0             6       4      0              10       0       0     0     0            0       4    0      0   0          4          46
 Grand Total      1     82     0      1           84          0            30      23      0              53       0       0     0     0            0      19    0      0   0         19         156
 Apprch %       1.2   97.6     0    1.2                       0          56.6    43.4      0                       0       0     0     0                  100    0      0   0
  Total %       0.6   52.6     0    0.6       53.8            0          19.2    14.7      0              34       0       0     0     0            0    12.2    0      0   0     12.2
 Unshifted        1     81     0      1         83            0            28      21      0              49       0       0     0     0            0      17    0      0   0       17          149
% Unshifted    100    98.8     0   100        98.8            0          93.3    91.3      0            92.5       0       0     0     0            0    89.5    0      0   0     89.5         95.5
   Bank 1         0      0     0      0          0            0             0       1      0               1       0       0     0     0            0       2    0      0   0        2             3
 % Bank 1         0      0     0      0          0            0             0     4.3      0             1.9       0       0     0     0            0    10.5    0      0   0     10.5           1.9
   Bank 2         0      1     0      0          1            0             2       1      0               3       0       0     0     0            0       0    0      0   0        0             4
 % Bank 2         0    1.2     0      0        1.2            0           6.7     4.3      0             5.7       0       0     0     0            0       0    0      0   0        0           2.6


                                                                                                       WEYCROFT
                                                                                         Out              In    Total
                                                                                           22               17     39
                                                                                             1               2      3
                                                                                             1               0      1
                                                                                           24               19     43


                                                                                            0     0              17    0
                                                                                            0     0                2   0
                                                                                            0     0                0   0
                                                                                            0     0              19    0
                                                                                        Right Thru             Left Peds
                                   0
                                   3
                                111


                                114


                                                    1
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    1




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                               Total




                                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                          MCCRIMMON
                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                        23


                                                                                                                                        21


                                                                                                                                                           101
                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                            98
                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                  North
                                                                   0
                                                                   1
                                                                 81


                                                                 82
                                                    Peds Right Thru




                                                                                         3/9/2011 07:45 AM
                                        0
                                        1
                                       83


                                       84




                                                                                                                                             30


                                                                                                                                             28
                                     In
                             MCCRIMMON




                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                         3/9/2011 08:30 AM
                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                   53


                                                                                                                                                                   49
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0




                                                                                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                         Unshifted
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                         Bank 1
                                  0
                                  2
                                28


                                30
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                       1
                                                       0
                                                       0
                                                       1




                                                                                         Bank 2
                                                                                                                                     Peds




                                                                                                                                                           154


                                                                                                                                                           147
                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                        Left           Thru Right Peds
                                                                                               0           0    0    0
                                                                                               0           0    0    0
                                                                                               0           0    0    0
                                                                                               0           0    0    0


                                                                                                   0           0       0
                                                                                                   0           0       0
                                                                                                   0           0       0
                                                                                                   0           0       0
                                                                                         Out              In       Total
                                                    HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                  343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                         Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection: McCrimmonPkwy-Weycroft                                                                         File Name           : AM McCrimmonPkwy-Weycroft
Date: 3-9-2011                                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
Counters: JJB                                                                                                Start Date          : 3/9/2011
Weather: Clear                                                                                               Page No             :2


                    MCCRIMMON                         MCCRIMMON                                                                                   WEYCROFT
                           Eastbound                       Westbound                                    Northbound                                Southbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Left Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right      Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:45 AM to 08:30 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM         0     13       0      0       13  0     9    9    0                  18       0      0       0       0           0      7      0      0       0           7          38
  08:00 AM         0     18       0      0       18  0     8    6    0                  14       0      0       0       0           0      1      0      0       0          1           33
  08:15 AM         1     19       0      1       21  0     7    4    0                  11       0      0       0       0           0      7      0      0       0          7           39
  08:30 AM         0     32       0      0       32  0     6    4    0                  10       0      0       0       0           0      4      0      0       0          4           46
 Total Volume      1     82       0      1       84  0    30   23    0                  53       0      0       0       0           0     19      0      0       0         19         156
% App. Total     1.2   97.6      0     1.2             0   56.6     43.4      0                   0      0       0      0                 100      0      0      0
        PHF    .250    .641   .000   .250    .656   .000   .833     .639   .000      .736      .000   .000    .000   .000      .000      .679   .000   .000   .000      .679          .848
   Unshifted       1     81      0       1     83      0     28       21      0        49         0      0       0      0         0        17      0      0      0        17           149
% Unshifted
    Bank 1        0      0      0       0      0      0      0        1      0          1        0      0       0       0           0       2     0      0       0        2              3
  % Bank 1        0      0      0       0      0      0      0      4.3      0        1.9        0      0       0       0           0    10.5     0      0       0     10.5            1.9
    Bank 2        0      1      0       0      1      0      2        1      0          3        0      0       0       0           0       0     0      0       0        0              4
  % Bank 2        0    1.2      0       0    1.2      0    6.7      4.3      0        5.7        0      0       0       0           0       0     0      0       0        0            2.6
                                                            HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                               343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                                      Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection: McCrimmon Pkwy - Weycroft Ridge                                                                                  File Name         : PM McCrimmonPkwy-Weycroft
Date: 3-9-2011                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
Counters: JJB                                                                                                                  Start Date        : 3/9/2011
Weather: Clear                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                   MCCRIMMON                                  MCCRIMMON                                                                                          WEYCROFT
                       Eastbound                                  Westbound                        Northbound                                                    Southbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                              App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
 05:30 PM        0     8     0    0                8        0    35     4     0      39      0      0     0   0                                     0      9     0     0    0              9          56
 05:45 PM        1    17     0    2               20        1    28     0     0      29      0      0     0   0                                     0      0     0     1    2              3          52
      Total      1    25     0    2               28        1    63     4     0      68      0      0     0   0                                     0      9     0     1    2             12         108

 06:00 PM         1     16     0      1           18         0            29        5      0              34       0       0     0     0            0        3    0      0      0          3          55
 06:15 PM         0     17     0      0           17         0            22        1      1              24       0       0     0     0            0        3    0      0      0          3          44
 Grand Total      2     58     0      3           63         1           114       10      1             126       0       0     0     0            0       15    0      1      2         18         207
 Apprch %       3.2   92.1     0    4.8                    0.8          90.5      7.9    0.8                       0       0     0     0                 83.3     0    5.6   11.1
  Total %         1     28     0    1.4       30.4         0.5          55.1      4.8    0.5            60.9       0       0     0     0            0      7.2    0    0.5      1       8.7
 Unshifted        2     57     0      3         62           1           114       10      1             126       0       0     0     0            0       15    0      1      2        18         206
 % Unshifted   100    98.3     0   100        98.4        100            100     100    100              100       0       0     0     0            0     100     0   100     100      100         99.5
   Bank 1         0      1     0      0          1           0             0        0      0               0       0       0     0     0            0        0    0      0      0         0            1
 % Bank 1         0    1.7     0      0        1.6           0             0        0      0               0       0       0     0     0            0        0    0      0      0         0          0.5
   Bank 2         0      0     0      0          0           0             0        0      0               0       0       0     0     0            0        0    0      0      0         0            0
 % Bank 2         0      0     0      0          0           0             0        0      0               0       0       0     0     0            0        0    0      0      0         0            0


                                                                                                       WEYCROFT
                                                                                         Out              In    Total
                                                                                           12               18     30
                                                                                             0               0      0
                                                                                             0               0      0
                                                                                           12               18     30


                                                                                            1     0              15    2
                                                                                            0     0                0   0
                                                                                            0     0                0   0
                                                                                            1     0              15    2
                                                                                        Right Thru             Left Peds
                                   1
                                   0
                                177


                                178


                                                    2
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    2




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                               Total




                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                           MCCRIMMON
                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                        10


                                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                             73


                                                                                                                                                             72
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                  North
                                                                   1
                                                                   0
                                                                 57


                                                                 58
                                                    Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            114


                                                                                                                                            114




                                                                                         3/9/2011 05:30 PM
                                        1
                                        0
                                       62


                                       63
                                     In
                             MCCRIMMON




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                         3/9/2011 06:15 PM
                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                   126


                                                                                                                                                                   126
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0




                                                                                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                         Unshifted
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                         Bank 1
                                  0
                                  0
                               115


                               115
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                       3
                                                       0
                                                       0
                                                       3




                                                                                         Bank 2
                                                                                                                                     Peds




                                                                                                                                                            199


                                                                                                                                                            198
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                        Left           Thru Right Peds
                                                                                               0           0    0    0
                                                                                               0           0    0    0
                                                                                               0           0    0    0
                                                                                               0           0    0    0


                                                                                                   1           0       1
                                                                                                   0           0       0
                                                                                                   0           0       0
                                                                                                   1           0       1
                                                                                         Out              In       Total
                                                     HNTB North Carolina, P.C.
                                                                   343 E. Six Forks Road, Suite 200
                                                                          Raleigh, NC 27609
Intersection: McCrimmon Pkwy - Weycroft Ridge                                                                   File Name           : PM McCrimmonPkwy-Weycroft
Date: 3-9-2011                                                                                                  Site Code           : 00000000
Counters: JJB                                                                                                   Start Date          : 3/9/2011
Weather: Clear                                                                                                  Page No             :2


                    MCCRIMMON                         MCCRIMMON                                                                                      WEYCROFT
                           Eastbound                        Westbound                                      Northbound                                Southbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                  App. Total   Left Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 05:30 PM to 06:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:30 PM
  05:30 PM         0       8      0      0        8  0     35    4    0                    39       0      0       0       0           0      9      0       0       0           9          56
  05:45 PM         1     17       0      2       20  1     28    0    0                  29         0      0       0       0           0      0      0       1       2          3          52
  06:00 PM         1     16       0      1       18  0     29    5    0                  34         0      0       0       0           0      3      0       0       0          3          55
  06:15 PM         0     17       0      0       17  0     22    1    1                  24         0      0       0       0           0      3      0       0       0          3          44
 Total Volume      2     58       0      3       63  1 114      10    1                 126         0      0       0       0           0     15      0       1       2         18         207
% App. Total     3.2   92.1      0     4.8            0.8   90.5       7.9     0.8                   0      0       0      0                83.3      0     5.6   11.1
        PHF    .500    .853   .000   .375    .788   .250    .814     .500    .250       .808      .000   .000    .000   .000      .000      .417   .000   .250    .250      .500          .924
   Unshifted       2     57      0       3     62       1    114        10       1       126         0      0       0      0         0        15      0       1      2        18           206
% Unshifted
    Bank 1        0      1      0       0      1       0      0         0       0            0      0      0       0       0           0      0      0       0       0           0           1
  % Bank 1        0    1.7      0       0    1.6       0      0         0       0            0      0      0       0       0           0      0      0       0       0           0         0.5
    Bank 2        0      0      0       0      0       0      0         0       0            0      0      0       0       0           0      0      0       0       0           0           0
  % Bank 2        0      0      0       0      0       0      0         0       0            0      0      0       0       0           0      0      0       0       0           0           0
                                            Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                 (919) 851-1912              File Name      : McCrimmon @ Yates Store
Weather: cold                                                                                  Site Code      : 00000001
Signal ID: none                                                                                Start Date     : 2/24/2011
Peds: counted                                                                                  Page No        :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                        Yates Store Road             McCrimmon Parkway              Yates Store Road             McCrimmon Parkway
                          Southbound                    Westbound                      Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks   Right  Thru   Left Trucks Right      Thru     Left Trucks   Right  Thru   Left Trucks Int. Total
     06:30 AM         0       0       0       0       0     0     1        0      4      16       0       0       0     0      0      0        21
     06:45 AM         1       0       0       0       0     0     3        0      7      17       1       0       1     0      0      0        30
         Total        1       0       0       0       0     0     4        0     11      33       1       0       1     0      0      0        51

     07:00 AM        3       2       0       1       3       0      6       0     18     27       4      0       1      1       0      0       66
     07:15 AM        1       2       0       0       1       2      4       0      8     39       0      0       2      1       0      0       60
     07:30 AM        1       9       1       2       2       0      3       0      5     58       0      0       2      1       1      1       86
     07:45 AM        0       7       0       0       4       0      3       0      7     66       3      1       0      2       1      0       94
         Total       5      20       1       3      10       2     16       0     38    190       7      1       5      5       2      1      306

     08:00 AM        0       9       4       0       4       0      1       0      3     83       0      0       4      1       0      0      109
     08:15 AM        0      13       0       3       5       6      0       0      5     55       3      0       2      2       1      0       95
     08:30 AM        4       4       1       0       6       1      2       0     14     75       0      0       2      2       2      0      113
     08:45 AM        1      10       3       0       7       1      3       0      7    101       3      0       3      2       1      0      142
         Total       5      36       8       3      22       8      6       0     29    314       6      0      11      7       4      0      459

      09:00 AM       1      13       3       0       3       0      0       0      7     51       2      0       1      2       0      0       83
      09:15 AM       1      12       4       0       2       5      0       0      6     31       4      0       5      9       2      0       81
*** BREAK ***
          Total      2      25       7       0       5       5      0       0     13     82       6      0       6     11       2      0      164

*** BREAK ***

     03:30 PM        3      18       0       4       3      4       5       0      2     11       1      0       5      3       6      3       68
     03:45 PM        4      19       3       5       2      8       3       0      1     17       2      0       5      5       4      3       81
         Total       7      37       3       9       5     12       8       0      3     28       3      0      10      8      10      6      149

     04:00 PM        3      25       1       2       2      9       9       0      2     15       7      0       0      2       3      3       83
     04:15 PM        4      24       3       4       8     11      20       0      5     18       9      0       2      5       2      1      116
     04:30 PM        1      28       3       1       3      5      29       0      5     13       3      0       6      1       4      4      106
     04:45 PM        4      37       3       3       1      1      18       0      7      9       3      0       3      1       4      4       98
         Total      12     114      10      10      14     26      76       0     19     55      22      0      11      9      13     12      403

     05:00 PM        5      36       4       4       0      5      12       0      5     14       5      0       8      4       2      2      106
     05:15 PM        2      56       2       0       5      4       7       0      2      7       3      0       2      2       4      2       98
     05:30 PM        1      84       4       0       3      2      11       0      1     12       5      0       6      4       1      0      134
     05:45 PM        0      86       1       0       1      3      13       0      4     15       2      0       4      0       0      0      129
         Total       8     262      11       4       9     14      43       0     12     48      15      0      20     10       7      4      467

      06:00 PM       1      68       6       0       3       2     15       0      3     10       2      0       3      3       0      0      116
      06:15 PM       1      51       3       0       2       4     12       0      6     14       2      0       4      0       0      0       99
*** BREAK ***
    Grand Total      42    613      49      29      70      73     180      0    134     774     64       1     71      53     38     23     2214
      Apprch %      5.7   83.6     6.7       4    21.7    22.6    55.7      0   13.8    79.5    6.6     0.1   38.4    28.6   20.5   12.4
        Total %     1.9   27.7     2.2     1.3     3.2     3.3     8.1      0    6.1      35    2.9       0    3.2     2.4    1.7      1
                                                                 Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                          6750 Tryon Road
                                                                           Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                          (919) 851-1912               File Name    : McCrimmon @ Yates Store
Weather: cold                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000001
Signal ID: none                                                                                          Start Date   : 2/24/2011
Peds: counted                                                                                            Page No      :2

                                                                               Yates Store Road
                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                             882       733     1615


                                                                              42  613        49     29
                                                                           Right Thru      Left Trucks
                                       364


                                               38




                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                    Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                         70
                     McCrimmon Parkway




                                                                                                                                     McCrimmon Parkway
                                                                                                                                     236
                                                                                    North
                                                            53
                                             Trucks Right Thru
                             185




                                                                                                                              73
                             In




                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                           2/24/2011 06:30 AM




                                                                                                                                             323
                                                       71




                                                                           2/24/2011 06:30 PM




                                                                                                                      Left Trucks
                                                                                                                       180
                      179




                                                                           Cars & Trucks
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                 23




                                                                                                                                                     559
                                                                                                                                0

                                                                           Left Thru Right Trucks
                                                                             64  774   134      1


                                                                             864       973     1837
                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                               Yates Store Road
                                            Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                6750 Tryon Road
                                                                 Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                (919) 851-1912              File Name      : McCrimmon @ Yates Store
Weather: cold                                                                                 Site Code      : 00000001
Signal ID: none                                                                               Start Date     : 2/24/2011
Peds: counted                                                                                 Page No        :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Peds
                        Yates Store Road             McCrimmon Parkway             Yates Store Road             McCrimmon Parkway
                          Southbound                    Westbound                    Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks   Right  Thru   Left Trucks Right     Thru     Left Trucks   Right  Thru   Left Trucks Int. Total
*** BREAK ***

     07:30 AM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       3      0      0       0      0       0      0        3
     07:45 AM        0       2       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0        2
         Total       0       2       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       3      0      0       0      0       0      0        5

     08:00 AM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      1       0      0        1
     08:15 AM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      1       0      0        1
     08:30 AM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       1      0      0       0      0       0      0        1
     08:45 AM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       2      0      0       0      1       0      0        3
         Total       0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       3      0      0       0      3       0      0        6

*** BREAK ***

     03:45 PM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       1      0      0       0      0       0      0        1
         Total       0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       1      0      0       0      0       0      0        1

      04:00 PM       0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       2      0      0       0      0       0      0        2
*** BREAK ***
          Total      0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       2      0      0       0      0       0      0        2

     05:00 PM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       1      0      0       0      1       0      0        2
     05:15 PM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       1      0      0       0      1       0      0        2
     05:30 PM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       2      0      0       0      3       0      0        5
     05:45 PM        0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       3      0      0       0      2       0      0        5
         Total       0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       7      0      0       0      7       0      0       14

      06:00 PM       0       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      0       1      0      0       0      0       0      0        1
*** BREAK ***
    Grand Total      0       2       0       0       0      0       0      0      0      17      0      0       0      10      0      0       29
      Apprch %       0     100       0       0       0      0       0      0      0     100      0      0       0     100      0      0
        Total %      0     6.9       0       0       0      0       0      0      0    58.6      0      0       0    34.5      0      0
                                          Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
School                                                             (919) 851-1912              File Name       : Green Level @ Ridgefield Dr
Weather:                                                                                       Site Code       : 00000003
Signal ID:                                                                                     Start Date      : 2/23/2011
Peds                                                                                           Page No         :1


                                                              Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                   Green Level Church Road              Ridgefield Drive          Green Level Church Road
                         Southbound                       Westbound                      Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time       Right   Thru    Left Trucks   Right     Thru     Left Trucks Right     Thru    Left Trucks    Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Int. Total
     06:30 AM         0      7      0       0       0        0        0      0      0      22       0      0        0      0      0       0           29
     06:45 AM         0     15      0       0       1        0        0      0      0      33       0      0        0      0      0       0           49
         Total        0     22      0       0       1        0        0      0      0      55       0      0        0      0      0       0           78

     07:00 AM        0     18       0      0       2         0      0       0       0     58       0      1        0      0      0        0          79
     07:15 AM        0     24       0      0       2         0      0       0       0     84       0      0        0      0      0        0         110
     07:30 AM        0     23       0      0       2         0      0       0       0     86       0      0        0      0      0        0         111
     07:45 AM        0     46       0      0       1         0      0       0       0    108       0      1        0      0      0        0         156
         Total       0    111       0      0       7         0      0       0       0    336       0      2        0      0      0        0         456

     08:00 AM        0     30       0      0       0         0      1       0       0    117       0      0        0      0      0        0         148
     08:15 AM        0     30       0      2       1         0      0       0       0    121       0      2        0      0      0        0         156
     08:30 AM        0     32       0      3       1         0      0       0       0    106       0      1        0      0      0        0         143
     08:45 AM        0     29       0      0       0         0      0       0       0    116       0      4        0      0      0        0         149
         Total       0    121       0      5       2         0      1       0       0    460       0      7        0      0      0        0         596

      09:00 AM       0     30       0      2       0         0      0       0       1     89       0      0        0      0      0        0         122
      09:15 AM       0     24       0      0       0         0      0       0       0     75       0      5        0      0      0        0         104
*** BREAK ***
          Total      0     54       0      2       0         0      0       0       1    164       0      5        0      0      0        0         226

*** BREAK ***

     03:30 PM        0     40       0      0       0         0      0       0       1     26       0      1        0      0      0        0          68
     03:45 PM        0     53       2      3       0         0      0       0       1     21       0      1        0      0      0        0          81
         Total       0     93       2      3       0         0      0       0       2     47       0      2        0      0      0        0         149

     04:00 PM        0     62       1      2       0         0      1       0       1     34       0      0        0      0      0        0         101
     04:15 PM        0     48       0      0       0         0      0       0       1     32       0      0        0      0      0        0          81
     04:30 PM        0     66       1      0       0         0      2       0       0     25       0      0        0      0      0        0          94
     04:45 PM        0     88       0      0       1         0      0       0       1     29       0      0        0      0      0        0         119
         Total       0    264       2      2       1         0      3       0       3    120       0      0        0      0      0        0         395

     05:00 PM        0    115       0      1       0         0      0       0       2     27       0      0        0      0      0        0         145
     05:15 PM        0    140       1      0       0         0      0       0       1     43       0      0        0      0      0        0         185
     05:30 PM        0    162       0      0       1         0      0       0       0     37       0      0        0      0      0        0         200
     05:45 PM        0    168       0      0       0         0      0       0       1     34       0      0        0      0      0        0         203
         Total       0    585       1      1       1         0      0       0       4    141       0      0        0      0      0        0         733

     06:00 PM        0    154       0       0      1         0       0      0       0     25       0       0       0      0      0        0         180
     06:15 PM        0    128       0       0      0         0       0      0       0     40       0       0       0      0      0        0         168
   Grand Total       0   1532       5      13     13         0       4      0      10   1388       0      16       0      0      0        0        2981
    Apprch %         0   98.8     0.3     0.8   76.5         0    23.5      0     0.7   98.2       0     1.1       0      0      0        0
       Total %       0   51.4     0.2     0.4    0.4         0     0.1      0     0.3   46.6       0     0.5       0      0      0        0
                                                            Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                                6750 Tryon Road
                                                                                 Cary, NC 27518
School                                                                            (919) 851-1912                                    File Name        : Green Level @ Ridgefield Dr
Weather:                                                                                                                            Site Code        : 00000003
Signal ID:                                                                                                                          Start Date       : 2/23/2011
Peds                                                                                                                                Page No          :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Peds

                          Southbound                                     Westbound                                           Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time       Right   Thru    Left                  Trucks   Right   Thru   Left            Trucks       Right           Thru    Left   Trucks    Right         Thru   Left   Trucks   Int. Total
*** BREAK ***

     03:45 PM        0       0          0                   0       0       6       0                0                0         0       0       0               0         0   0       0            6
         Total       0       0          0                   0       0       6       0                0                0         0       0       0               0         0   0       0            6

*** BREAK ***

      06:00 PM       0       0          0                   0       0       1       0                0                0         0       0       0               0         0   0       0            1
*** BREAK ***
    Grand Total      0       0          0                   0       0      7        0                0                0         0       0       0               0         0   0       0            7
      Apprch %       0       0          0                   0       0    100        0                0                0         0       0       0               0         0   0       0
        Total %      0       0          0                   0       0    100        0                0                0         0       0       0               0         0   0       0



                                                                                  Out               In              Total
                                                                                            0            0              0


                                                                                    0     0                     0        0
                                                                                Right Thru               Left       Trucks
                                 7


                                           0




                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                             Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                  North
                                                        0
                                       Trucks Right Thru
                                   0
                             In




                                                                                                                                                                7



                                                                                                                                                                        In



                                                                                 2/23/2011 06:30 AM
                                                  0




                                                                                 2/23/2011 06:15 PM
                                                                                                                                                      Left Trucks



                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                   7




                                                                                 Peds
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                 Left           Thru Right Trucks
                                                                                        0           0    0      0


                                                                                            0            0              0
                                                                                  Out               In              Total
                                          Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                6750 Tryon Road
                                                                 Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                (919) 851-1912                File Name       : Green Level @ Weycroft
Weather: cool & clear                                                                           Site Code       : 00000004
Signal ID: none                                                                                 Start Date      : 3/1/2011
Pedestrians: none                                                                               Page No         :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                    Green Level Church Rd               Weycroft Ave             Green Level Church Rd               Weycroft Ave
                         Southbound                     Westbound                      Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time       Right  Thru     Left Trucks   Right    Thru    Left Trucks Right     Thru    Left Trucks   Right    Thru    Left   Trucks   Int. Total
     06:30 AM         1     2       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      21       0      0       1       0      2        0           27
     06:45 AM         1    16       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      38       0      0       1       0      3        0           59
         Total        2    18       0       0       0       0      0       0      0      59       0      0       2       0      5        0           86

     07:00 AM        2     24       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     74       0      0       6        0      5        0         111
     07:15 AM        3     27       0      1       0        0      0       0      0    102       1      0       4        0     11        0         149
     07:30 AM        2     19       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     90       3      0       4        0      3        0         121
     07:45 AM        0     33       0      1       0        0      0       0      0     98       1      0       6        0     10        0         149
         Total       7    103       0      2       0        0      0       0      0    364       5      0      20        0     29        0         530

     08:00 AM        2     25       0      0       0        0      0       0      0    120       3      1       6        0      2        0         159
     08:15 AM        3     14       0      0       0        0      0       0      0    120       6      1       4        0      4        0         152
     08:30 AM        0     31       0      0       0        0      0       0      0    102       2      0      11        0     14        0         160
     08:45 AM        1     26       0      0       0        0      0       0      0    120       4      1       3        0      4        1         160
         Total       6     96       0      0       0        0      0       0      0    462      15      3      24        0     24        1         631

      09:00 AM       5     33       0      1       0        0      0       0      0     96       6      1       3        0      7        0         152
      09:15 AM       2     22       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     77       2      1       2        0      3        0         109
*** BREAK ***
          Total      7     55       0      1       0        0      0       0      0    173       8      2       5        0     10        0         261

*** BREAK ***

     03:30 PM        4     24       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     29       1      1       4        0      4        0          67
     03:45 PM        3     40       0      1       0        0      0       0      0     25       3      0       6        0      3        0          81
         Total       7     64       0      1       0        0      0       0      0     54       4      1      10        0      7        0         148

     04:00 PM        9     54       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     18       1      0       2        0      6        0          90
     04:15 PM        3     51       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     31       8      1       4        0      1        0          99
     04:30 PM        4     67       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     28       7      0       7        0      4        0         117
     04:45 PM        1     75       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     29       4      0       1        0      2        0         112
         Total      17    247       0      0       0        0      0       0      0    106      20      1      14        0     13        0         418

     05:00 PM        4    103       0      1       0        0      0       0      0     33       1      1       3        0      2        0         148
     05:15 PM        5    124       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     37       3      1       3        0      0        0         173
     05:30 PM        9    171       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     21       8      0       4        0      2        0         215
     05:45 PM        6    156       0      0       0        0      0       0      0     27       2      2       1        0      3        0         197
         Total      24    554       0      1       0        0      0       0      0    118      14      4      11        0      7        0         733

     06:00 PM       10    149       0       0      0        0      0       0      0     35       4       0      0        0      3        0         201
     06:15 PM        9    125       0       0      0        0      0       0      0     26       3       0      4        0      2        0         169
   Grand Total      89   1411       0       5      0        0      0       0      0   1397      73      11     90        0    100        1        3177
    Apprch %       5.9   93.8       0     0.3      0        0      0       0      0   94.3     4.9     0.7   47.1        0   52.4      0.5
       Total %     2.8   44.4       0     0.2      0        0      0       0      0     44     2.3     0.3    2.8        0    3.1        0
                                          Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                 (919) 851-1912         File Name      : Green Level @ Hortons Creek
Weather: cool & clear                                                                     Site Code      : 00000005
Signal ID: none                                                                           Start Date     : 3/1/2011
Pedestrians: counted                                                                      Page No        :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Cars & Trucks
                    Green Level Church Rd               Evans Farm Rd             Green Level Church Rd             Hortons Creek Rd
                         Southbound                       Westbound                     Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time       Right  Thru     Left Trucks   Right     Thru    Left Trucks Right     Thru    Left Trucks   Right    Thru    Left Trucks Int. Total
     06:30 AM         0     3       2       1       0        0      0       0      0      18       0      1       0       0       1      0        26
     06:45 AM         0    13       1       0       0        0      0       0      1      30       0      0       1       0       1      0        47
         Total        0    16       3       1       0        0      0       0      1      48       0      1       1       0       2      0        73

     07:00 AM        2     25       1      1       1         0      0       0      1     68       1      3       1       0       2       0       106
     07:15 AM        2     21       0      2       0         0      0       0      1     96       0      1       2       0       4       0       129
     07:30 AM        1     19       1      0       1         0      0       0      0    105       1      0       5       0       0       0       133
     07:45 AM        1     37       2      3       2         0      0       0      1    103       1      1       2       0       8       0       161
         Total       6    102       4      6       4         0      0       0      3    372       3      5      10       0      14       0       529

     08:00 AM        3     24       1      0       0         0      0       0      3    119       3      1       4       0       5       0       163
     08:15 AM        3     12       4      1       0         0      2       1      1    120       2      0       4       0       1       0       151
     08:30 AM        2     24       2      1       1         0      1       0      2    115       6      1       5       0       4       0       164
     08:45 AM        0     20       1      1       3         0      1       0      5    109       2      2       7       0       8       1       160
         Total       8     80       8      3       4         0      4       1     11    463      13      4      20       0      18       1       638

      09:00 AM       6     26       2      2       3         0      0       0      1    107       1      1       5       0      10       0       164
      09:15 AM       2     31       2      1       1         0      0       0      3     78       2      0       2       0       2       0       124
*** BREAK ***
          Total      8     57       4      3       4         0      0       0      4    185       3      1       7       0      12       0       288

*** BREAK ***

     03:30 PM        3     28       0      0       2         0      1       2      0     27       7      2       2       0       2       0        76
     03:45 PM        2     40       2      1       1         0      1       1      1     25       2      2       3       0       3       1        85
         Total       5     68       2      1       3         0      2       3      1     52       9      4       5       0       5       1       161

     04:00 PM        3     52       0      0       0         0      3       0      1     24       3      0       0       0       1       1        88
     04:15 PM        4     51       1      3       0         0      2       0      0     30       1      0       3       0       1       0        96
     04:30 PM        1     64       0      0       1         0      0       1      0     29       3      1       5       1       3       1       110
     04:45 PM        0     72       0      1       0         0      2       0      0     29       1      0       4       0       2       0       111
         Total       8    239       1      4       1         0      7       1      1    112       8      1      12       1       7       2       405

     05:00 PM        5     97       1      1       1         0      2       0      0     31       2      1       5       0       5       0       151
     05:15 PM        5    117       0      0       1         0      2       1      0     38       2      2       3       0       2       0       173
     05:30 PM        3    164       0      1       1         0      1       1      0     25       2      0       3       0       4       0       205
     05:45 PM        3    181       0      0       0         0      0       0      0     17       3      0       3       0       3       0       210
         Total      16    559       1      2       3         0      5       2      0    111       9      3      14       0      14       0       739

     06:00 PM       10    166       0       0      2         0       0      1      0     30       5       1      1        0      0       0       216
     06:15 PM        7    135       1       0      0         0       0      0      0     33       4       0      2        0      2       0       184
   Grand Total      68   1422      24      20     21         0      18      8     21   1406      54      20     72        1     74       4      3233
    Apprch %       4.4   92.7     1.6     1.3   44.7         0    38.3     17    1.4   93.7     3.6     1.3   47.7      0.7     49     2.6
       Total %     2.1     44     0.7     0.6    0.6         0     0.6    0.2    0.6   43.5     1.7     0.6    2.2        0    2.3     0.1
                                            Mulkey Engineers & Consultants
                                                                 6750 Tryon Road
                                                                  Cary, NC 27518
School: in session                                                 (919) 851-1912          File Name        : Green Level @ Hortons Creek
Weather: cool & clear                                                                      Site Code        : 00000005
Signal ID: none                                                                            Start Date       : 3/1/2011
Pedestrians: counted                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                  Groups Printed- Peds

                          Southbound                      Westbound                      Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time       Right   Thru    Left   Trucks   Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Right   Thru    Left   Trucks   Right   Thru   Left   Trucks   Int. Total
*** BREAK ***
      06:45 AM       0       0      0        0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0        0       0      1      0        0            1
          Total      0       0      0        0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0        0       0      1      0        0            1

*** BREAK ***

     08:30 AM        0       0      0        0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0        0       0      1      0        0            1
     08:45 AM        0       0      0        0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0        0       0      1      0        0            1
         Total       0       0      0        0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0        0       0      2      0        0            2

      09:00 AM       0       0      0        0       0       1      0       0       0       0      0        0       0      0      0        0            1
*** BREAK ***
          Total      0       0      0        0       0       1      0       0       0       0      0        0       0      0      0        0            1

*** BREAK ***

      03:30 PM       0       0      0        0       0       0      0       0       0       7      0        0       0      0      0        0            7
*** BREAK ***
          Total      0       0      0        0       0       0      0       0       0       7      0        0       0      0      0        0            7

*** BREAK ***

   Grand Total       0       0      0        0       0      1       0       0       0       7      0        0       0       3     0        0           11
    Apprch %         0       0      0        0       0    100       0       0       0     100      0        0       0     100     0        0
      Total %        0       0      0        0       0    9.1       0       0       0    63.6      0        0       0    27.3     0        0
